OceanofPDF.com

SELECTED BOOKS BY KEN WILBER
Boomeritis: A Novel That Will Set You Free
A Brief History of Everything
The Essential Ken Wilber: An Introductory Reader
Grace and Grit: A Love Story
Integral Meditation: Mindfulness as a Path to Grow Up, Wake Up, and
Show Up in Your Life
Integral Psychology: Consciousness, Spirit, Psychology, Therapy
Integral Spirituality: A Startling New Role for Religion in the Modern and
Postmodern World
The Integral Vision: A Very Short Introduction to the Revolutionary Integral
Approach to Life, God, the Universe, and Everything
One Taste: The Journals of Ken Wilber
The Religion of Tomorrow: A Vision of the Future of the Great Traditions—
More Inclusive, More Comprehensive, More Complete
Sex, Ecology, Spirituality: The Spirit of Evolution
The Simple Feeling of Being: Visionary, Spiritual, and Poetic Writings
A Theory of Everything: An Integral Vision for Business, Politics, Science,
and Spirituality
OceanofPDF.com

OceanofPDF.com

Shambhala Publications, Inc.
2129 13th Street
Boulder, Colorado 80302
www.shambhala.com
© 2024 by Ken Wilber
Cover art: Sunward Art/Shutterstock
Cover design: Pete Garceau
Interior design: Katrina Noble
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any means, electronic
or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and retrieval
system, without permission in writing from the publisher.
library of congress cataloging-in-publication data

Names: Wilber, Ken, author.
Title: Finding radical wholeness: the integral path to unity, growth, and delight / Ken Wilber.
Description: Boulder, Colorado: Shambhala Publications, Inc. [2024] | Includes index.
Identifiers: lccn 2022048951 | isbn 9781645471851 (Hardcover)
eISBN 9780834845473
Subjects: lcsh: Spirituality. | Well-being. | Self-actualization (Psychology).
Classification: lcc BL624.W5325 2023 | ddc 204/.4—dc23/eng/20230124 lc record available at
https://lccn.loc.gov/2022048951
a_prh_7.0_147238663_c0_r0

OceanofPDF.com

CONTENTS
Introduction
1. Introduction to Waking Up
Evidence of Waking Up
5 Major State-Stages of a Complete Waking Up
Eternity and Infinity

2. Why Do We Need Growing Up?
What Is Growing Up?
A Simplified, 4-Stage Model of Growing Up
Magic and Mythic Structure-Stages

3. Growing Up Interprets Waking Up
4. Spiritual Intelligence versus Spiritual Experience
Spiritual but Not Religious
Jesus versus Gaia
Structures versus States

5. The Early Stages of Growing Up
The Archaic Fusion (or Crimson) Stage
The Magic-Power (or Red) Stage
The Major Types of Mystical Experience

The Wilber-Combs Lattice
The Magical Nature Mysticism of Shamanism
Summary

6. The Mythic-Literal (or Amber) Stage
The Literal Meaning of Original Myths
A Mythic Subtle State
A Conveyor Belt

7. The Modern-Rational (or Orange) Stage
Rationality as Demythologizing (or The Jefferson Bible)
The Nature of Myths
The Rational Atheist
The Causal Formless State
Original Buddhism
The Death of the Mythic God
Evolution—The “What” and the “Why”

8. The Postmodern-Pluralistic (or Green) Stage
Freedom versus Equality
The Progressive Left and the Conservative Right
The Virtues of Green
Growth Hierarchies versus Dominator Hierarchies
Green Religion

9. The Inclusive-Integral (or Turquoise) Stage
The Nature of the Integral Stages
Turquoise Inclusive-Integral and One Taste
The Dualism Inherent in the New Paradigm in Science

The Meaning of Tantra
Summary: The Necessity of Including both Growing Up and
Waking Up

10. Cleaning Up and Shadow Therapy
The Shifting Self-Boundary
The 3-2-1 Process
Practicing the 3-2-1 Process
Summary

11. Showing Up
The 4 Quadrants
4 Quadrants or the Big Three?
The Hard Problem or the Mind-Body Problem
The Real Meaning of Matter
Defusing the Debate over Transgender Identity
The Quadrants in Everyday Life
The Importance of the 4 Quadrants in Big Wholeness

12. Opening Up
Our Multiple Intelligences
Evolution and Our Multiple Intelligences

13. Very Dark Shadows Today
Mutual Assured Destruction
The Real Sins of Modernity
Deliberately Developmental Culture

14. The Nightmare of Modernity

The Great System of Nature
The Enormously Great and Totally Mixed Advance of
Measurement
Atomism versus Systems Theory: A New Paradigm?
The World of Tomorrow: A Global Transhumanism?

15. Waking Up
Overview
The Historical Forgetting of Waking Up
The Witness versus One Taste
Two Steps in This Practice
Pointing-Out Instructions
Awakening to I AMness

16. Pointing Out the Witness and One Taste
The Witness, Round 1
One Taste, Round 1
The Witness, Round 2
One Taste, Round 2

17. The Feelings of Enlightenment
A Big Bliss beyond Bliss
The Fullness of a Big Love beyond Love

18. Integral Sexual Tantra
A Brief Note about Tantra
The Use of Relative Bliss and Love in Tantra

19. The Practice of Integral Sexual Tantra

Recognition in Tantra
Using Sex to Recognize the Blissful Witness
Using Sex to Recognize Loving One Taste
The Ultimate Unity of Bliss and Love
Summary

Afterword
Notes
Index
E-mail Sign-Up
OceanofPDF.com

Introduction
This is a book about Wholeness. I’m capitalizing “Wholeness” because I
want to give it a certain weight. In fact, I claim—and will try to convince
you—that discovering a genuine Wholeness is actually the meaning of a
real spirituality, and thus it can offer you a genuine meaning and purpose to
your life. But this is not a spirituality that is theistic; it is not mythic; it does
not rely on accepting a particular belief system; it does not postulate the
existence of a supreme deity, or a supernatural being, or a transcendental
reality that you should worship. It’s fine if you happen to believe in any of
those, but they are not what this book is about. Besides, you can believe in
any of those items and still lack—or gain—a genuine Wholeness itself. But
discovering this Wholeness is what a real spirituality is all about; and in this
book, you will find ways to fully discover a real Wholeness in the midst of
your life and see the profound difference that it can make for your own
being and awareness.
You’ve probably heard the common phrase “I’m spiritual but not
religious.” In a sense, that phrase applies to this book. Its approach is
spiritual, in the sense that it helps you to directly discover a real Wholeness
—a genuine spirituality—right here and right now in your own life, but it
does not demand any sort of belief in magical and mythic stories, miracle
events, or anything like an institutional religion. In redefining a genuine
spirituality as the discovery of a real Wholeness, it bypasses most of the
magical and mythic belief systems that permeate so many of the world’s
religions—and in exactly that sense, it is “spiritual but not religious.” So
you won’t find any beliefs such as “Moses really did part the Red Sea,”
“Mohammed really did fly to the moon on his horse and cut it in two with

his sword,” “Lao Tzu really was nine hundred years old when he was born,”
and so on. Mythic stories like those are the cornerstones of many—even
most—of the world’s great religions, and a primary factor in whether you
are following those religions correctly is whether or not you actually accept
and believe in those myths. Again, it’s fine with me if you accept any of
those mythic belief systems, but you will not be asked to do so in this book.
Instead, a new form of spirituality—the discovery of a real Wholeness—
will instead be laid out, along with specific exercises and practices that will
help you directly and immediately realize a genuine Wholeness permeating
your entire life. You will definitely be able to say, “I’m spiritual but not
religious.” (And by the way, a recent poll reported by Time magazine shows
that over 70 percent of millennials say that the phrase “spiritual but not
religious” applies to them, so this type of approach definitely has an
audience ready to adopt it seriously.)
Immanuel Kant, writing in 1793, said that you could tell that it was
definitely a modern world because if a person were on their knees praying
and somebody came in and saw them, they would be profoundly
embarrassed. Today we live in a world where many people, especially those
highly educated, do not find the magical and mythic stories of the world’s
great religions to be at all believable, not anymore. And, yes, many of those
people would be embarrassed if they were caught, one way or another,
believing in any of those ancient mythic “unbelievable” stories. The
spirituality you will find in this book will not, I believe, embarrass you, no
matter how highly educated you are. It simply helps you find a genuine
Unity and Wholeness in your own being and awareness, and there are many
extraordinary benefits that come from finding that kind of Wholeness in
your life—benefits in your work, relationships, play, parenting, career, and
your simple being.
This is not to say that there is no benefit at all in any of the aspects of
the original forms of the world’s great religions. I will not be asking you to
believe any of the magical, mythic, or miracle stories of any traditional
religion. I definitely will not try to convince you of anything such as Jesus
Christ really being born of a biological virgin. (The fact that Mary pulled

that one off is astonishing. She’s pregnant, and if her husband is not the
father, then she’s clearly been fooling around, and so she has to invent some
sort of story as her excuse. And Joseph, her husband, is apparently so dense,
he actually buys Mary’s story: “Yes, I had sex, but don’t worry, the real
father is not from this planet.”) Those are the types of “unbelievable”
stories that have modern men and women scratching their heads and getting
embarrassed if caught believing.
But that is not to say that, in all of Christianity (or in any other world
religion), there is absolutely nothing of value. This, of course, is where we
have to be very, very, very careful. I suggest that there is a small but
important core of most of the world’s religions that is truly spiritual, as I’m
using the term. In other words, most traditional religions have some aspects
that really do help people discover a genuine Wholeness, so the very core—
and only the core—of these approaches is “spiritual but not religious.”
Take Christianity, for example. Yes, there are a great number of magical
and mythic beliefs and miracles that a Christian is asked to adopt—for
example, the beliefs laid out in the Nicene Creed and the Apostle’s Creed,
all variations on the myths of the one and only biological son of the one and
only creator of the universe, who died for your sins and will resurrect you
on judgment day to your eternal glory. To today’s educated mind, not one of
these statements is believable. But, especially in early Christianity, there
was something else it offered: a Waking Up to a Wholeness awareness, and
it did this through a path of meditation or contemplation. Thus, for example,
St. Paul says, “Let this consciousness be in you that was in Christ Jesus,
that we all may be one.” This search for Oneness, this drive toward
Wholeness, was a core component of Christianity, as it was in many other
of the world’s Great Wisdom Traditions—for example, Hinduism,
Buddhism, and Sufism. What’s most important is that this Wholeness is
completely independent of one’s beliefs. And, especially, what is not
required are magic-mythic beliefs, which are what we find in religious
treatises like the Bible. These are no longer needed—especially since they
are holdovers from earlier, lower, and now largely outdated (and hence

“unbelievable”) stages of evolution or Growing Up—namely, the magic and
mythic stages.
Having a near-death experience (NDE) is completely independent of
whether you are a materialist, idealist, nihilist, or a faith believer. Likewise,
the discovery of a real Wholeness does not in any way depend upon your
believing in any sort of magical or mythic belief system (or any rational
belief system, for that matter). That’s just not a requirement. In addition to
all the mythic stories in Christianity, there are also contemplative,
meditative, or truly mystical schools of Christianity that aim directly for a
genuine experience of Wholeness—for example, the approach expressed in
texts like The Cloud of Unknowing (where “unknowing” means letting go
of things like mythic beliefs so as to get into a Waking Up Awareness
beyond all belief systems). That experience of Wholeness is totally
independent of accepting any of the magical and mythic beliefs that usually
come with a conversion to Christianity. Most of the genuine Christian
mystics that I know (and by “mystic,” I mean somebody who has had a
direct spiritual experience of this Wholeness) don’t believe any of the
central Christian myths or in the supernatural miracles, including the virgin
birth and the resurrection of the physical body—none of them.
So it is one thing to say that, in being a Christian, you have discovered
your own Christ consciousness—meaning, you have discovered your Real
Self and the fundamental Wholeness of the entire universe (“so that we all
may be one”)—and it is quite another to say, “I believe in the Father, the
Son, and the Holy Ghost; that the Son was born of a virgin and was
crucified, was dead and resurrected, ascended unto heaven, and now offers
me salvation from original sin.” Those are two entirely different things; one
is spiritual, the other is religious.
The brilliant writer Bishop John Shelby Spong wrote numerous books—
such as his 2018 work Unbelievable—that drive home very similar points
about Christianity, and strongly. Spong starts by pointing out that there is a
very big difference between experience and explanation. That is right on the
mark. We often call experience a “knowledge by acquaintance” and
explanation “a knowledge by description.” It’s an important distinction.

What we will be directly exploring in this book is a knowledge by
acquaintance—a direct experience—of Wholeness, and although this
ultimate Unity consciousness will be described (an explanation), you will
need to directly experience this Wholeness yourself to actually know what
it means (and we’ll be exploring exercises that let you do exactly that).
Spong argues that real Christianity involves a direct experience of Oneness
but, historically, Christianity got hijacked by an explanation that came from
a lot of literalized first-century myths and a rather byzantine fourth-century
philosophy. As for the myths and miracles in the Bible, Spong outrageously
denies the reality of all of them. Spong himself certainly does not believe in
any of them. And this includes every magic-mythic belief of Christianity,
including the idea that Jesus literally died for your sins, the notion of a
biological virgin birth, physical ascension, Moses parting the Red Sea,
Elijah going straight to heaven in his chariot, and on and on. Spong denies
every myth, miracle, and supernatural occasion associated with Christianity
(and he’s relentlessly done so in a dozen books; and remember, he was a
real bishop, for heaven’s sake, and I honestly don’t know how he avoided
excommunication). Spong wants the direct experience of Oneness, of pure
Wholeness (which he calls a wholeness of “living, loving, and being”), and
he doesn’t want a single myth thrown in there as an (unbelievable)
explanation of that experience, which is exactly where the title of his book
comes from (Unbelievable). Spong was truly “spiritual but not religious,”
and he believed—as I do—that Jesus was, too, and that the announcement
of Wholeness was the core of Christ’s message.
I would add that it is also the core message of Gautama Buddha,
Shankara, Plotinus, Lao Tzu, Lady Tsogyal, Chuang Tzu, and most of the
other great Realizers who were the founders of the traditional religions. We
find this quest for Wholeness at the center of most of the world’s great
religions, even though their major mythic stories differ wildly. After all, if
you are truly one with the universe, you’re one with the universe, no matter
how you explain or frame it. One is one. If you examine the great traditions
carefully, you will readily see this common core of Unity consciousness in
virtually all of them. There is actually a philosophical school called the

“Perennial Philosophy,” which believes that this fundamental Wholeness is
what all of the world’s great religions are pursuing; and while their outward
forms vary immensely (their mythic explanations vary), this inner
Wholeness is essentially the same in virtually all of them (the experience of
Oneness is similar). We have to be careful here because although there is a
certain sense in which the basic Wholeness is similar in all of them, it’s also
true that most experiences include some degree of interpretation (which is
partially based on culture), so we really don’t find too many things that are
truly “perennial” or unchanging. Still, the core truth of the Perennial
Philosophy is that as the meditation systems became more and more
sophisticated, they all tended to point to a very similar ultimate Wholeness.
The discovery of that Wholeness—a direct experience of Unity
consciousness—was variously called “Enlightenment,” “Awakening,”
“Satori,” “Metamorphosis,” “Fana,” or the Great Liberation, which is the
basic aim of meditation itself.
As we will directly explore later, that Wholeness is not mythic,
supernatural, or magical; rather the experience of Wholeness is that, as you
are looking at the world around you, suddenly you and that world become
one single experience of Unity consciousness. You feel that you are indeed
one with the entire world; you are one with everything, and the entire
universe is arising within you. That’s typically the direct experience of
Unity consciousness—and then, after that experience, you will usually
come up with all sorts of explanations for it, most of which won’t stand up
to any sort of critical scrutiny and would rationally be shot down, but that
won’t stop you from trying. And you’ll still know, however difficult the
explanations might be, that the experience itself was very real. It is indeed
an authentic peak experience of the Ground of All Being; it’s a real Waking
Up, a genuine glimpse of an ultimate Unity consciousness, a divine
Oneness, what some Tibetan Buddhists call the “One Taste” of a real
Wholeness.
So I maintain that the Vedanta school of Hinduism, Taoism, Kabbalah,
contemplative or mystical Christianity, most forms of Neoplatonism, many
earlier forms of Buddhism, all schools of Mahayana and Vajrayana,

Hasidism, and Sufism, among many others, have, at their deepest core, the
pursuit and discovery of this genuine nondual Wholeness. We will be
looking at a Waking Up to this Wholeness and exploring ways to directly
realize and experience it ourselves without having to adopt any of the
mythic stories or other strange explanations that almost always came with
the original forms of these religions. Spirituality is basically religion
without weirdness, and that’s the form we’ll be pursuing.
We will also see, to anticipate another point, that human development
includes several stages of growth and evolution, which brilliant researchers
like Jean Gebser have described and named—for example, archaic, magic,
mythic, rational, pluralistic, integrated. Humanity itself is moving through
those stages (including the lower stages of magic and mythic on the way to
higher stages such as rational and integrated—with humanity today just
reaching the beginning of the integrated stage). We’ll be looking at those
stages more carefully later, but right now I note that I will claim that almost
all of the magical and mythic stories in the Bible were written when
humanity was at those earlier stages—the magic and mythic stages—some
two thousand to six thousand years ago. Thus, at the time they were written,
they were not mistakes or hallucinations or delusions, but they were written
by humans at the earlier magic and mythic stages of development—and
they honestly and sincerely meant what they wrote. At that point, I will
soften my harsh criticism of those religious views—it’s like yelling at a
five-year-old—but without changing the essential point that they are indeed
products of earlier, lower, and largely outmoded and outdated (and hence
indeed “unbelievable”) stages of human evolution and that none of these
beliefs are required for a direct experience of real Wholeness. But, if you
have any of those beliefs, you don’t have to get rid of them—although you
might choose to do so, or at least find ways to update them.
So we’re looking for a genuine Wholeness. But there’s a very strange
thing about Wholeness—and here we come to the very central point of this
book. Wholeness almost never just stands out in awareness, all by itself.
Wholeness is not something that everybody automatically sees, like a rock
or a tree. You actually have to know where to look for Wholeness, and then

you have to go out and look for it. Otherwise, as strange as it might seem,
you won’t find Wholeness; you will remain partial, fragmented, and broken
—or at least not nearly as Whole as you could be. Although Wholeness is
literally all around you, with you, and in you—it’s flooding your awareness
right now—if you don’t know where to look for it, it will go right past you
and you won’t even suspect that it’s there. I will be emphasizing that point
over and over and over again until we’re both completely tired of it. But it’s
very much the truth; and, in fact, if there were one point alone that I would
like you to take from this book, it would be “You have to know where to
look for Wholeness.” The vast majority of people in this world have very
little Wholeness in their lives because nobody ever showed them where to
look for it.
Just as interesting (and just as surprising) is that when we pursue ways
to look for Wholeness, we find that there are several different (but equally
important) types of genuine Wholeness. And there are pathways (or
practices or experiential exercises) that you can explore to help you see
each type. In fact, we’ll be looking carefully at each of those different areas
of Wholeness and explaining them clearly so you’ll know exactly what to
do to see them. Let me start by saying that only one of these types of
Wholeness (there are five of them) has anything to do with spirituality, so if
you’re not interested in anything to do with spirituality, I think you can still
like and enjoy this book.
For now, I’ll give these 5 different types of Wholeness some names:
Waking Up, Growing Up, Opening Up, Cleaning Up, and Showing Up.
These are all activities you can do in your life, and each of them will show
you an unbelievably profound type of Wholeness. And if you put all of
these types of Wholeness together, you will have what could be called a
wildly inclusive “Big Wholeness.” Look through these various types of
Wholeness as they are explained, and see if they make sense to you. You
can always toss out the ones that don’t. But most people find them
incredibly illuminating; in fact, there’s a worldwide professional movement
devoted to this Big Wholeness called “Integral Metatheory,” which just
happens to be a view that I represent.

It’s flat-out amazing when you first look at it, but each one of those five
pathways reveals a very different type of Wholeness. You would seriously
think that Wholeness being Wholeness, there would be only one of them.
And this is where we stumble on a shocking realization: the Wholeness
offered by authentic Waking Up paths—which formed the core of the
world’s Great Religions and consisted of an experience of “being one with
everything”—turns out to be just one major type of Wholeness (the type
that we call “Waking Up”). But, there are at least 5 major aspects,
dimensions, or areas of fundamental Wholeness (namely—Waking Up,
Growing Up, Opening Up, Cleaning Up, and Showing Up), and this turns
out to be profoundly important, because each one of those areas shows us a
very, very different type of Wholeness.
Humanity, in the East and West, North and South, has worked for
thousands and thousands of years, right up to today, in order to discover all
of these areas of Wholeness. And this was not an easy task, because it is
still true that not one of these areas of Wholeness is totally obvious or
apparent right now; none of them is just parading by in front of your
awareness and loudly announcing itself. Every one of them has to be
directly looked for. And you have to know it’s there, or you won’t even try.
This is why Integral Metatheory, where Integral basically means
“Wholeness,” had to search for nearly five decades to find all of these areas
of Wholeness. And one of the first things that people often do when they
find this Integral approach is sort of hit themselves in the head for not being
able to see and find all these areas of Wholeness themselves, since once
they see them, they all seem so incredibly obvious. In one sense, they are
very obvious and they are running through your awareness right now. But
it’s still quite true that if you don’t know where and how to look for them,
they will remain mysterious unknowns in your life. In fact, of the 5 types of
Wholeness that I just mentioned, three of them, Growing Up, Opening Up,
and Cleaning Up, were discovered only in the last one hundred years, which
means that, for almost their entire history, human beings were actually
training themselves to be partial, fragmented, and broken.

There is, today, no system of growth anywhere in the world that
includes all 5 of these types of Wholeness. Thus, if you want a real
Wholeness, you’ve come to the right place. What you’ll find in the
following pages are simple outlines, practices, and pointing-out instructions
that you can easily use and that will directly, and almost immediately, show
you these 5 areas of “Big Wholeness.” I myself did not invent any of them,
and every one has a substantial knowledge community around the world
that explores it in immense depth and detail. But I have pulled them all
together and presented them in a type of superholism (or Integral
Metatheory) that will help you find all of the fundamental Big Wholenesses
that are lying under your own nose right now, if you know where to look.
This book was originally titled “Making Room for Everything.” Given
my discussion of Wholeness thus far, it might be obvious why I originally
chose that title. Genuine Wholeness—Big Wholeness—makes room for
everything in your life, much of which right now might not be included.
You are very likely missing an enormous number of things that actually
belong to you and should be included in your own life, to its huge benefit
and likely improvement, but you haven’t made room for them—you don’t
have enough Wholeness. When you really see the fundamental Big
Wholeness of this world, then everything fits and you feel as if there is a
superabundant fullness in your life, and no friction, no tension, no torture.
But to make room for everything, you need to know exactly where to look
for a complete Wholeness—and this means you need to know where and
how to look for a real Waking Up, Growing Up, Opening Up, Cleaning Up,
and Showing Up. Each one of those processes makes it very clear to you
exactly where its own genuine Wholeness lies. One of the most shocking
things to me in my entire professional life has been the realization of just
how utterly hidden real Wholeness is—and it’s shocking because, when you
do see it, it is absolutely and staggeringly obvious. How did it take
humanity hundreds of thousands of years to discover most of these things?
How blind could we possibly be?
For example, when you see what Growing Up is, I think that, like most
people, you will have two major reactions: (1) you will understand why this

entire process was not discovered by humanity until around one hundred
years ago, and (2) you will be almost stunned by what this process shows
you about Wholeness, because you will see a type of Wholeness that you
probably had no idea even existed. You could be a serious holist, a
dedicated systems theorist, or some other believer in the real Wholeness of
this world, and yet your response will likely be, “Wow, I didn’t suspect that
kind of Wholeness was even there!”
Like the other 5 Wholeness-disclosing processes, Growing Up will
show you an aspect of Wholeness that is both easy to understand and not at
all obvious (until, once again, it is pointed out, whereupon it becomes
utterly apparent). We see this with all of the various aspects of Big
Wholeness. For instance, with the process of Waking Up, we are indeed
talking about a direct experience that most of the great religions were
originally founded on and that they originally sought to transmit to others,
and that was an experience of pure Wholeness. And we’ll see, in the next
chapter, that the evidence for this profound Waking Up experience is so
overwhelming that one well-respected expert has called its existence “not
disputable.”
The meditation or contemplation systems of the great religions worked
directly with these Waking Up realizations, and these systems didn’t
involve any magic or mythic stories but instead were profound
consciousness-transformation psychotechnologies. All they wanted was the
pure Wholeness or ultimate nondual Unity experience. This direct
experience was then given different explanations by the different religions.
Those religions often differed in many ways, but whenever mystics (or
those who actually had this direct experience of Oneness) from different
religions met and talked, they knew almost immediately that they were
talking about the same basic reality—they looked in each other’s eyes and
simply knew; they could see it. They knew that behind, beyond, or under
this relative world of separate things and events there is a profound Oneness
or true Wholeness, and those who have not realized this ever-present Unity
are still caught in the conventional world of perpetual human suffering and
misery, a world that is universally said to be a fallen world—dualistic,

fragmented, full of original sin, alienated, and broken—but a world that, in
the “twinkling of an eye,” could be totally seen through and released with a
real Waking Up to an ever-present genuine Wholeness.
Many people today are familiar with a Buddhist version of these
Waking Up practices known as “mindfulness.” They use mindfulness for
reducing stress, improving sleep, relieving depression and anxiety,
increasing health, improving productivity, bettering relationships, and
various other self-improvements, and that’s fine—there is much scientific
evidence that mindfulness will do all of those things. But mindfulness was
not originally invented to do any of those things. It was originally invented
as a way to directly experience God. That is—to drop the old mythic God
terms—mindfulness was a way to immediately realize a pure nondual
Wholeness, a direct Unity consciousness, a fundamental groundless Ground
of All Being, a nirvana of limitless unbrokenness and no suffering instead
of an illusory and perpetually painful world of fragmented and disjointed
samsara.
These Waking Up systems maintain two things about the ultimate goal
of Awakening: (1) everybody fully possesses right now the already
Enlightened or fully Awakened Mind (of pure Wholeness), but (2) virtually
nobody is aware of it. Most of these great meditation traditions therefore
maintain that there is nothing you can do to achieve Waking Up,
Enlightenment, or Liberation because it is always already completely
present right now, and you can’t achieve something that already is (attaining
Enlightenment makes no more sense than attaining your lungs or acquiring
your feet). But you can immediately recognize this ever-present
Enlightened Mind if somebody simply points it out to you (these are known
as “pointing-out instructions,” and we’ll directly give many of those below
so you can see this—and experience it—directly for yourself).
The utter obviousness of the actual Wholeness of each of these 5 areas
is simply astonishing—if, indeed, they are pointed out. But it’s also
astonishing that none of them includes the others. That is, you can fully
discover the Wholeness of one but not see the Wholeness offered by the
others. This applies even to the ultimate Unity consciousness of Waking Up.

You can have a major Waking Up experience and still not see anything
about Growing Up, Cleaning Up, Opening Up, or Showing Up. Likewise,
you can fully Show Up and not have a clue about Waking Up; or you can
practice Cleaning Up and know absolutely nothing about Growing Up.
What’s more, all 5 of these types of Wholeness grow and develop through
different pathways, and they do so in almost completely independent ways,
so that you can be very advanced in one and still be very low in the others,
or in any combination. All of these things are like apples and oranges (and
pears and limes and peaches)—that is, 5 quite different realities—although
they all add up to one astonishingly Big Wholeness.
But there are also a few things that you have to do in order to be able to
see any of these Wholenesses. Even though a good deal of it might be laid
in your lap the moment you are born, an actual awareness of it is not. You
will indeed almost certainly have to have them pointed out. If you haven’t,
the chances are quite high that there is relatively little Wholeness in your
life, and what’s more, you almost certainly know this. And even if there is a
bit of Wholeness present, it’s fairly likely that it’s not that much and that it
could be increased enormously.
That’s what this book is intended to help you do. It’s going to point out
these 5 versions of Wholeness, a Wholeness that is drenching you right
now. We’ll go through the types of Big Wholeness that you can find by
Waking Up, Growing Up, Opening Up, Cleaning Up, and Showing Up (and
we’ll add one area that will directly help you see this, an area called
“Integral sexual Tantra,” where you’ll be using sex to directly Wake Up). In
each case, there is a significant type of Wholeness awaiting you. What’s so
amazing about this is indeed how absolutely ever-present real Wholeness is
yet how utterly non-obvious it almost always is. It really is Deus
absconditus (“God hidden”)—Spirit or Wholeness hidden, not showing
itself, not apparent or obvious, as if God were seriously trying to avoid
being seen.
In today’s world, virtually all 5 types of Wholeness remain great hidden
secrets, which is why the world lacks so much Wholeness—and is indeed
fractured, fragmented, broken, and massively polarized. The world is not

consciously acting on a single one of the 5 major types of Wholeness. We
can say that today’s world has a great lack of Wholeness, or we can say that
today’s world has a great lack of Spirit. Those two words—Wholeness and
Spirit—are essentially synonymous the way that I am using them.[1] And
though today’s world, by almost any standard, is in some places very
religious, it is almost never very spiritual. There just isn’t enough
Wholeness to go around.
This lack of Wholeness, this lack of Spirit, is why today’s world has
such a hard time making room for everything—or, in some cases, making
room for anything. You might feel this way about your own life. Today’s
world is cramped, crowded, clawing, claustrophobic. Everything is smashed
into everything else, and people everywhere are elbowing each other, trying
to find more space for their own opinions, views, and ideas. Social media
are especially cramped, with people in each other’s faces in the loudest,
nastiest, most virulent fashion possible. Making room for everything is
exactly what people today have the most difficult time doing. Their space is
small, their territory crowded, their backyards full of invaders, all yelling
and screaming for a little more space.
But when you see all of these types of Wholeness lying under your nose
right now, your world becomes vastly roomier, more spacious. It’s as if your
being and awareness simply open up and suddenly there is room for
everything in your life. A profound meaning and purpose will open up for
you in the very midst of your life, drenching it to the core. Once you see the
Big Wholeness in your own world, you will know exactly where you fit and
where you belong, and your meaning in this Wholeness will become very
apparent and obvious—and your meaning is that you are ultimately one
with all of this Wholeness. Until that point, all of this otherwise hidden
Wholeness is lying all around you but is totally unnoticed, and thus it is not
active enough to actually offer you any of its roominess for your own being.
The world indeed seems totally cramped and crowded, closed and
constrained, and you are caught in the crush. But when you discover this
vast Wholeness—a truly Big Wholeness—lying right in your own
backyard, it’s a new world altogether. And this world does indeed make

room for everything. There’s nothing artificial or make-believe about it. The
deep and vast Wholeness that you have discovered—and when seen, it’s as
real and vivid as a ride on a Ferris wheel—reaches out and embraces
everything that is arising in you and your world, and opens you fully to all
of it, with no stress, no strain, no friction, no restraint. One of the things that
I have heard most often from people who have made this astonishing
discovery is “Being one with everything, I felt like I could breathe, really
breathe, as if for the very first time, even though this had been staring me in
the face my entire life.” I believe that is what making room for everything
will do for you too. It will give you enough room to move around in a free
and unencumbered way, embracing everything in your life with joy and
meaning. You will no longer be pushed or pulled by things and events that
seem outside of your control but rather you will find yourself one with the
entire universe, embracing it all as if it were God itself—because, with our
new meaning of “God” as total Wholeness, that’s exactly what it is. You
will be about as “spiritual but not religious” as you could possibly be, or, in
other terms, as Whole as you could ever want.
If you like, we can start right now on this remarkable discovery.
OceanofPDF.com

1
Introduction to Waking Up
We start with the dramatic Wholeness offered by Waking Up.
Waking Up is a baseline position for those who want a deep, extensive,
and even absolute experience of Wholeness (we’ll see what absolute means
in just a moment), and it has probably had a more profound impact on
human history than any other experience that has ever occurred. While
ordinary people “lead lives of quiet desperation” (and pain and suffering),
Waking Up has been the fallback position for anyone, whether in the East or
the West, who wanted a more authentic, vital, enlightened, and “awakened”
life, one that did indeed have an “absolute” or “ultimate” meaning, because
it was plugged directly into the ultimate Ground of All Being (and that is
not a myth but an immediate and direct experience).
Waking Up has been known to human beings for thousands of years,
possibly going back in its earliest forms as far as twenty thousand years ago
to the ancient shamans, whose voyages to the upper-worlds and
underworlds involved various forerunners to these types of Waking Up
spiritual (or nondual Wholeness) experiences. And as humanity evolved,
and as their spiritual realizations seemed to become more and more evolved
as well, the depth of this spirituality seemed to increase or become even
more sophisticated.
Now what I’m about to say concerning various spiritual experiences (or
“religious experiences”—to use the term in its old-fashioned way—or
simply experiences of a massive Wholeness) might sound very far out and

perhaps silly or even crazy to you, and so I’ll just ask that you suspend any
suspicion or even revulsion you might have about these notions and simply
play along for now. Humanity has discovered some very profound ways to
validate these various Waking Up experiences—to either confirm or reject
them. These “spiritual but not religious” experiences can ground a type of
interior science, which takes nothing on belief or as dogma but rather bases
its claims on direct experience and evidence, and asks you to believe
nothing that you haven’t verified for yourself. So please keep that in mind,
and I’ll give examples of these types of scientific verifications as we
proceed. You’ll be asked to accept nothing that you haven’t directly
experienced yourself.
For now, by way of introduction to the topic of Waking Up, notice that,
over the centuries and millennia, various spiritual systems around the world
pressed into increasingly deeper and deeper, or wider and wider, or higher
and higher spiritual experiences. There was a progressive discovery of evergreater and more inclusive spiritual states of consciousness, and any human
being could, if they took up the requisite interior scientific experiments and
practices, find out for themselves what these higher and higher states were.
Generally speaking, the path of Waking Up had a single major goal. It
started with the average state of consciousness of a typical human being,
which was said to be narrow, limited, fragmented, and marked by inherent
suffering, anxiety, and torment—a state that generally was said to involve
what is called the “separate-self sense,” “self-contraction,” the “illusory
self,” the “fallen self,” the “dreaming self,” or simply the “ego” (none of
them complimentary terms). The goal of Waking Up was, through the direct
experimental practices of meditation, contemplation, or yoga, to transform
consciousness from that limited and contracted state through several much
more inclusive, open, and free states, to a genuine Wholeness, a pure
Nonduality, an ultimate Unity consciousness or Kosmic consciousness,[1] an
absolute Oneness with the entire universe. This Wholeness wasn’t just a
religious belief or theological dogma or something to be taken on mere faith
but a direct and immediate personal experience, a datum or real evidence
given to anybody who successfully carried out the interior experiment of

meditation or contemplation. (Since meditation is primarily a practice of
direct awareness and not a mythic belief system, I will take meditation as an
example of something that is “spiritual but not religious”—and it is
definitely interested in experience not explanation, which most meditation
systems take to be part of the problem, not the solution.)
If we look at any of these many meditation or contemplation systems
around the world, we find that most of them left quite detailed maps of
these higher spiritual territories, and they left very specific experiments for
a seeker to perform in order to progress to, and directly experience, these
higher states. This process of spiritual growth, development, and realization
—Enlightenment, Awakening, or simply Waking Up—is a profound
Wholeness-revealing process and is found in virtually all of the major
systems of meditation, contemplation, yoga, or contemplative prayer
presented in the Great Wisdom Traditions.
Notice that we are not talking about any sort of deity form, like an old
man sitting on a throne in the sky and watching over your every thought
and action. We’re not talking about any magic or mythic stories, any
religious beliefs or miracles—nothing like that. We’re talking about a state
of consciousness—a direct and immediate experience (not explanation)—in
which you deeply feel one with the entire universe, one with everything,
finite and infinite, manifest and unmanifest. This is the direct experience
that we’re calling “Waking Up,” “ultimate Unity consciousness,” “Nondual
awareness,” “divine Oneness,” or “One Taste” (Zen calls it “satori,” a term
you might have heard; it’s a term I’ll also often use). And—as incredibly
strange as this will sound to the average Westerner, most of whom have
never even heard of this kind of thing—the evidence for the existence of
this type of absolute consciousness is utterly overwhelming and virtually
undeniable. (I’ll give some evidence below.) If you want to ground your
spiritual beliefs—or just your beliefs in general—in anything that seems to
have an ultimate proof for its existence, this is it.
What’s more, the path of Waking Up is the only major discipline
anywhere in the world’s history that has claimed it was dealing with an
ultimate Truth. There were lots of relative truths all over the place, and the

Paths of Liberation (the Wisdom Traditions that directly and explicitly dealt
with Waking Up) denied none of these relative truths. The truths of things
that would later be established by science—the truths of physics, chemistry,
biology, astronomy, and so on—were all respected and accepted. But those
were all relative truths (and their believers never claimed that these truths
were anything but that); they dealt with reality in the relative realm of space
and time, a reality that changes and evolves over time. But Waking Up, the
claim went, deals not with relative truth but with ultimate Truth. Ultimate
Truth does not deal with a particular being or group of beings; it deals with
Being itself, with a capital B—the Ground of All Being, spaceless and
therefore infinite, timeless and therefore eternal, and a groundless Ground
that underlies every relative truth in existence but is not itself a relative
truth (and thus is not detectable by ordinary, external science but only by an
interior, meditative science). This radical Waking Up experience was
universally and unanimously claimed to be disclosing a genuinely ultimate
Truth not a relative truth.
This is a bit of a sidebar, but of the people that I have known (including
doctors, lawyers, and PhDs, along with waitresses and busboys and
gardeners) who have had a genuine satori—or a Waking Up to what is
claimed to be ultimate Truth—I would say that at least 90 percent of all of
them feel that their satori disclosed a genuinely ultimate Truth, or certainly
the closest thing that they had ever experienced that could be called an
“absolute” or “ultimate” reality. Their satori or Waking Up experience is
variously said to be “the most certain experience I’ve ever had,” “the most
real experience,” “the most undeniable,” “the most meaningful,” “the most
timeless and changeless,” and on and on. We’ll see what you think of it as
we go forward, but remember that later on we’ll be giving some real
exercises that directly lead to a Waking Up experience, so you can decide
on its reality (“ultimate” or otherwise) for yourself. But remember that, to
the extent that we accept a real Waking Up in our tool kit of Big Wholeness,
we are indeed dealing with the only major practice in world history that has
been unanimously claimed to disclose a truly ultimate Truth.

What’s more, this experience is said to be a oneness with everything,
and it’s felt or experienced as exactly that, a oneness with the entire
universe. In other words, the Wholeness that Waking Up provides is about
the largest Wholeness you can think of—it’s almost as big as “big” can get
—short of a truly Big Wholeness. Waking Up does provide a large part of
the wholeness of a Big Wholeness (but not all of it, which would require the
other four types of Wholeness). After all, it claims to be a unity of
everything both infinite and finite, and that’s really big.
EVIDENCE OF WAKING UP
There are many different references that I could give pointing to the
genuine reality of these states of Waking Up, starting with the genius
William James’s book The Varieties of Religious Experience (by which
James also means, in our terminology, the variety of “spiritual experience”),
or the renowned MIT scholar Huston Smith’s wonderful book Forgotten
Truth (a title which means that there is indeed universal agreement among
virtually all the major Paths of Liberation about what constitutes ultimate
Truth, but this is a truth largely forgotten in modern times). But I’ll give just
one major reference, mostly because I don’t want to get in a fight this early
in the book. I’ll use the clinical psychologist Jordan Peterson, professor
emeritus at the University of Toronto, who is a very well-known online
superstar. As a respected clinical psychologist, Peterson has spent tens of
thousands of hours treating clients with mental disorders, and so
presumably he can recognize the difference between delusions and reality,
so at least we know he’s not crazy and likely won’t be giving his support to
some sort of truly weird religious belief. People tend to be very divided on
what they think of Dr. Peterson—it’s a “love him or leave him” kind of
thing—but most people agree that Peterson usually backs his ideas with
very solid experimental and scientific research. So we can assume that his
opinions will be backed by considerable evidence.
And about this topic, all that Peterson does is tell the bloody truth:
“There is an overwhelming amount of evidence that those two kinds of

consciousness exist, one being your consciousness, of you as a localized
and specified being [your individual ego], and the other being this capacity
to experience oceanic dissolution and the sense of the cosmos being one [or
ultimate Wholeness].”[2] Peterson also says, “The fact that those different
states of consciousnesses exist is not disputable.” And he also says, “So the
case that the transcendent experience is not real, is wrong.” He adds, almost
under his breath, “It actually challenges, to some degree, our concepts of
what constitutes real.”[3]
Boy, I’ll say. This Waking Up experience has always been taken to be a
waking up to an ultimate Truth or absolute reality—a Ground of All Being
—a reality that exists in contrast to our ordinary more-or-less sleepwalking
reality, which is by comparison seen to be more of a dream that we
ignorantly call “reality.” It is in comparison to that dream state that this
absolute consciousness is known as “Waking Up.” And that is very much
what a genuine satori feels like: Just as you can wake up from a nightmare
and say something like, “Thank God that dream wasn’t real!” likewise with
satori you wake up and see that the entire ordinary world is just a dream—
or, in any event, that’s exactly how it feels. That’s why this experience has
indeed been known as “Awakening” or “Enlightenment”—or “Waking Up.”
So I’ll simply take it, with Peterson, that the evidence for the reality of this
Waking Up “absolute consciousness,” as he calls it, is so overwhelming that
it is indeed “not disputable.”
5 MAJOR STATE-STAGES OF A COMPLETE WAKING UP
The various meditative or contemplative traditions around the world present
a path of meditative training that leads directly to this ultimate Unity
consciousness. There are, of course, many different ways that the various
stages of this Waking Up transformation are presented in the Great Wisdom
Traditions. If we put all the major paths of Waking Up on the table (there
are several dozen major ones) and carefully compare and contrast them all,
we find that this transformation involves a common spectrum of states of
consciousness that stretch from the constricted egoic self-contraction to the

expansive, all-inclusive spaciousness of Enlightenment. These evolutionary
states, as they historically unfolded, were actually incorporated—as
meditative stages—in the various contemplative paths (with some paths
covering more of these stages and thus being more complete, and a few of
them covering all of the known major stages).
The paths that are considered by the traditions themselves to be their
very highest offerings—such as Mahamudra and Dzogchen in Tibetan
Buddhism, Advaita Vedanta in Hinduism, contemplative Taoism,
Neoplatonism, Jewish Kabbalah, contemplative Christianity, and Islamic
Sufism—generally include all these major states and stages of Waking Up.
There is no need whatsoever to remember these stages—later we will go
over everything you need to know, and we’ll especially focus on exercises
that will help you to directly experience the two very highest states
(Witness and One Taste). But just to show what’s involved, I’ll give a quick
example of the major state-stages of a complete process of Waking Up
transformation based on recent research in this area, using Daniel P.
Brown’s and Integral Metatheory’s terminology.[4]
There are 5 basic stages of a meditation path, according to a metaanalysis of the Traditions. The first stage, where most people start, is that of
gross thinking and the ego, the so-called monkey mind, or incessant,
internal, mental chattering. Many traditions just call this “the waking state,”
which means the ordinary, conventional, or “illusory” state of waking
awareness (which Integral calls the “gross state”). Almost all of the major
meditative traditions maintain that this egoic state is the direct cause of the
pain and suffering inherent in the human condition (certainly in its fallen,
ignorant, or unenlightened state). One of the first things they want to do is
help human beings move beyond this narrow, nasty, vicious monkey mind
(Hobbes’s classic definition of the natural condition of humanity perfectly
describes this state: “solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short”).
The transcendence of this pitiless state starts to happen with stage 2,
which Brown calls “Awareness,” because this state starts to move beyond
gross thinking to a thought-free Awareness, where the ego is dropped and
there is instead what Brown calls a very “subtle personality.” Integral calls

this stage the “subtle state,” which is marked by the luminosity of the subtle
personality, which Integral identifies as being not the ego but the soul. The
self-sense is beginning to expand from the cramped, narrow, skinencapsulated ego on its way to the Supreme Identity of the ultimate state,
which Suzuki Roshi calls “Big Mind.”
Brown calls stage 3 “Awareness Itself,” because this is a pure
Awareness that sheds all gross and subtle phenomena and is plugged into
the core, background, spacetime matrix of the entire universe. Integral calls
this the “archetypal” and “causal state.” The causal state is often intuited in
the pure formless Silence between thoughts. The Traditions also maintain
that everybody experiences the causal state each night in deep dreamless
sleep, a totally formless state where we are plugged directly into pure
Awareness itself with no objects, thoughts, or ideas—which is why sleep is
deeply refreshing.
Brown calls stage 4 “Boundless Changeless Awareness”—and just by
its name you can tell that this is truly a significant step. This stage is a pure
Consciousness without an object, which Integral, following Advaita
Vedanta, also calls turiya, which is a Sanskrit term that literally means “the
fourth.” It is named that because it is the fourth major state of
consciousness after the first three of gross, subtle, and causal. Stage 4 is a
pure, timeless Witness, the sense of pure I Amness, an ever-present
Awareness and not any content of Awareness. Later on, we will see what
this ever-present state really means and why it embodies the actual meaning
of “eternity.” “Eternity” does not mean a really, really long time; it means a
point without time, a timeless Now, and this is not something hard to attain
but impossible to avoid. This Witness awareness is one of the highest states
in the meditative traditions, and, as indicated, it’s one that we will soon be
exploring in several exercises, so you’ll have a chance to check this out for
yourself.
Brown calls stage 5, the highest state, “Nondual Awakened Awareness,”
which Integral, following Advaita Vedanta, calls turiyatita, which literally
means “beyond turiya.” It’s pure nondual Suchness or Thusness, ultimate
Unity consciousness, or One Taste—an ultimate Oneness or Nonduality.

The direct realization of this radical state is known as Enlightenment,
Awakening, Metamorphosis, Fana, Moksha, Satori, the Great Liberation,
the Supreme Identity. This state really does make me one with everything—
a pure Unity or nondual Oneness, where nondual means “not-two.” This
One Taste is indeed the absolute consciousness whose existence, based on a
staggering amount of evidence, is indeed “not disputable.”
We will also be doing exercises to realize this ultimate state, so you can
definitely check this out for yourself (as well as whether or not you think
this state represents any sort of “Ultimate” Truth). And notice what that
claim implies—that is, the claim that you and I will be doing exercises to
directly realize this ultimate state. It means that many of the essentials of
these 5 major states of consciousness can be peak experienced right now.
Even though these states of consciousness are arranged in an ascending
order (from gross to One Taste), and even though those states tend to unfold
in those specific stages during a complete meditation practice, nonetheless
because they are indeed states, they are ever-present (even a baby wakes,
dreams, and sleeps—gross, subtle, and causal) and thus they can indeed be
peak experienced at almost any stage of Growing Up, which means that
they can be experienced right now. So hang on for those Waking Up
exercises!
In the meantime, you don’t have to remember those “state-stages”—as I
said, we’ll go over everything you need to know later. But do notice that we
find variations of these major states of consciousness given in the
meditation stages found throughout the Great Traditions. Although the
number of stages vary, if you look closely, you can see similarities in all of
them: Saint Teresa’s seven interior mansions, Yogachara’s eight levels of
consciousness, Saint John of the Cross’s stages of contemplation,
Kabbalah’s ten sefirot, Patanjali’s state-stages in the Yoga Sutras, Zen
Buddhism’s ten ox-herding stages, the five major stages of the Sufis, and
Evelyn Underhill’s five major stages of mystical development. As with all
developmental models—in both Waking Up and Growing Up—some
models of Waking Up have a few more stages, some have a few less, but in

all of them you can see variations on the same 5 major state-stages: gross,
subtle, causal, the Witness, and One Taste.
Besides the direct realizations of each of these, all of them are said to
also manifest themselves in ordinary states of consciousness. For example,
according to both Vedanta (Hinduism) and Vajrayana (Tibetan Buddhism),
the gross state appears in ordinary waking consciousness, the subtle state
appears in dream consciousness, the causal state appears in deep dreamless
sleep, turiya or the ever-present Witness is fully present in the everyday
mind, and the ultimate Nondual is the Ground of them all—thus we have
waking, dreaming, deep sleep, Witnessing, and One Taste—the major
natural states of consciousness.
These major states of consciousness become the major stages of
meditation, because a person’s central identity starts out confined to the
typical ego-dominated waking state, and with increasing meditation, it ends
up traversing all of those state-stages in consciousness, resulting in a pure
Awakening of ultimate Unity consciousness. I refer to this sequence of
state-stages, in whole or part, as Waking Up.
ETERNITY AND INFINITY
As I said, we will be looking at the two highest states of Waking Up—that
is, the pure Witness and One Taste—and exercises that will give you a
direct experience of both a bit later (see chapter 16). But right now, I want
to explain two ideas that almost all religions or spiritual systems talk about
at some point but which most everybody totally misunderstands in truly
outrageous ways: eternity and infinity. Since Waking Up is often
(unfortunately) discussed in religious terms (because it was first discovered
by the mythic-religious stages of human consciousness), you will often hear
the terms “infinity” and “eternity” used, and I want to make sure that you
are not as confused as most people are who use those terms. “Eternity” does
not mean a really long time, and “infinity” does not mean a really big space
—in fact, that’s pretty much exactly what they are not.

Start with eternity. Most people take eternity to be a really, really long
stretch of time, often an everlasting amount of time, going on forever and
forever endlessly. But if that were the meaning of eternity, how could
anybody ever have an experience of an eternal spiritual reality? In order to
do that, you would have to live forever and ever, which is definitely not
going to happen. So if a Waking Up experience is claimed to be the
experience of an eternal reality, and eternity means everlasting time, then
we would never be able to have a Waking Up experience. Something is
definitely off kilter here.
The solution to this tricky problem is actually very simple. Eternity does
not mean everlasting time; it means a point without time, timelessness.
Because eternity means “timelessness”—a point without time—then all of
eternity can fully and completely fit into every moment of time. And
because eternity is timelessness, there is no conflict or tension between
eternity and time—all of timeless eternity is fully present at every moment
of time. That means that eternity is ever-present. Since eternity is timeless,
100 percent of eternity is fully and completely present at every point of
time. Right now, in your own present experience, you have access to 100
percent of eternity—not 95 percent, not 99 percent, but all of it—100
percent, right now. This is often called the “timeless Now” or the “pure
Present.” Precisely because eternity is indeed timeless, all of eternity is
totally present in each and every moment—each timeless Now. And that
means that you have full access to eternal life, right now—all of it.
So experiencing eternity definitely does not mean that you have to live
forever. It does not mean that you must accept some unwavering belief in
various magic myths such as Elijah going straight to heaven in a chariot, or
Lot’s wife being turned into a pillar of salt, or your living endlessly forever
in some sort of heaven after death. I don’t want Waking Up to be associated
with anything like that, and I don’t want you to worry that it is. As witness
to the utterly hardheaded reality of eternity, I call on, arguably, the most
hardheaded philosopher in the West, Ludwig Wittgenstein. Wittgenstein in
his youth was as hardheaded as they come; in fact, with his work Tractatus
Logico-Philosophicus, he almost singlehandedly invented the field of

logical positivism, which is as hardheaded as they come and definitely does
not accept any pie-in-the-sky religious silliness. So notice that, in the
Tractatus, Wittgenstein gives an absolutely perfect definition of eternity,
while also endorsing its reality—and please, read this carefully; it’s the
solution to the entire problem: “If we take eternity to mean, not everlasting
temporal duration, but a point without time, then eternal life belongs to
those who live in the present.”[5]
Exactly. And this means that eternal life is fully available to you, right
now—in fact, it’s available to you at no other time except right now (hence
“timeless Now”). Falling into the timeless Now is what happens with an
authentic Waking Up—which therefore does indeed include a discovery of
eternal life—your eternal life.
So what about this “timeless Now”? If it’s basically the same as an everpresent eternity, then is this timeless Now really available right now? Is it
really ever-present—fully and totally present at every point in the stream of
time? Yes, definitely. Alan Watts, in his wonderful The Wisdom of
Insecurity, gives a perfect explanation of why this is so. I’ve repeated
versions of this explanation many times, and I’m going to do so again in
just a moment, because it’s so simple and obvious.
The problem is that we are clearly living in a stream of time, and yet
somehow in every moment of this temporal duration, there is supposed to
be an ever-present eternity, a “timeless Now” that is not hard to attain but
impossible to avoid. And somehow, becoming aware of this timeless Now is
finding eternity, and finding eternity means finding a genuine Waking Up.
Thus, if the timeless Now is fully ever-present, then a genuine Waking Up
is also fully present, all of it, right now. And that is totally correct. Notice
that virtually all of the Paths of Liberation maintain that the Enlightened
Mind is absolutely impossible to achieve or attain. The Christian mystics
claim that in reality you don’t have to do a single thing to reach complete
salvation—by the grace of God, you are already fully saved. Zen says that
“everyday mind, just that is the Tao”—which means that the everyday state
of consciousness that you have right now is indeed the Enlightened Mind,
just as it is. The Prajnaparamita Sutras—the core of virtually all of

Mahayana Buddhism—make one point over and over again: “If you could
just realize that the Enlightened Mind is not attainable, you would be
Enlightened.” The Enlightened Mind is not attainable because you already
have it, all of it. You can no more attain Enlightenment than you can attain
your kidneys or acquire your feet. And that’s the simple paradox: you are
always already enlightened, but you still have to recognize that fact.
The exercises that I will be presenting in a later chapter will help you to
directly recognize your own ever-present Awakened Mind. But this everpresent nature also applies to the “timeless Now.” It, too, is ever present and
only needs to be recognized. This is indeed the discovery of eternity and a
direct understanding of why eternity is indeed ever present, fully present at
every moment of time, including the present moment, so that “eternal life
belongs to those who live in the present.”
You are already living fully in the present, in the timeless Now, but you
probably don’t recognize this. Correlated to this lack of recognition of the
timeless Now is the belief that time itself is real. We seem not to live in the
Present because we take the past and the future to be real, and thoughts
about those realities keep us so absorbed and distracted that we miss the
timeless Present and the Enlightened Mind. And according to the Paths of
Liberation, the stream of time is no more than an illusion—it’s not really
there—it’s just part of the “dream world” that we are supposed to awaken
from, even though, in reality, we actually don’t have to do anything but
recognize the ever-present, timeless, eternal Now that is always already the
case.
So is this stream of time running through your mind really real, or is it
actually illusory? Let’s check it. Go ahead and think of something from
your past, something that seems especially real. Get a really good sense of
that past reality; see it as clearly as you can. This is the past that you think is
real. As you are seeing this past event very clearly, simply notice that, in
reality, all you are truly aware of is a memory of that event, and that
memory itself is arising only in this Now-moment. Further, when that event
actually occurred, it was in a present Now-moment. Thus, in your own

direct awareness, you can never see an actual past event; you are aware
only of a fully present Now-moment.
Likewise, think of some future event. It’s fairly clear that the same thing
is operating: you are not seeing any truly real future; you are seeing only a
present image, or thought of the future, and that image exists nowhere but
in this present Now-moment. And when and if what you are thinking of
actually happens in the future, it will be occurring in the Now-moment.
It’s pretty inescapable: all you are ever actually aware of is a timeless,
ever-present Now-moment, an ever-present Present. This Now-moment
doesn’t move through time; time moves through it. And ever-present does
mean EVER-PRESENT. As Erwin Schrödinger, the cofounder of modern
quantum mechanics, put it, “The present is the only thing that has no
end.”[6] The present (the timeless Now) indeed has no end, and it has no
beginning, either. Beginnings and endings have to do with time, not
timelessness. Because eternity is timeless, it does not enter the stream of
time—it is ever-present, or always present, not because it’s in the stream of
time for a really long duration but because it doesn’t enter the stream of
time to begin with.
Many of the Paths of Liberation therefore refer to the Enlightened Mind
as “the Unborn”—it’s unborn because it never enters time; it is never born
in the temporal stream. And this means that, in your direct awareness right
now, your own Enlightened Mind is Unborn. You can never give birth to it
because it is already fully present in its entirety and thus is indeed
unattainable—just like the timeless Now.
But notice that the Paths of Liberation also call the Enlightened Mind
“the Undying.” It never dies because, having never entered the stream of
time (it’s Unborn), it never leaves the stream of time. In other words, it
never dies. This is why your own True Self or Big Mind is never born and
why it never dies—it is Unborn and Undying—in short, it is truly eternal
and right Now. As we saw with the timeless Now, this is indeed an everpresent reality, and this is also why—to give just one example—most
people intuit that they will never die. Oh, they know their superficial,
conventional self and body will die. But there is something in them—the

deepest, truest part—that they know will never die. You yourself almost
certainly know this—or basically intuit this—which is why you directly
cannot be aware of your own death, or your own ceasing to be. (You can’t
do it because your True Self is Unborn and Undying, and hence you cannot
actually picture your own awareness either being born or truly dying.)
Again, intuiting that the deepest part of you will never die (or is
Undying) does not mean that you will live in time forever; it means that
your True Self plugs straight into an eternal and infinite Ground of Being, a
Ground so deep—and so timeless and eternal—that its core is totally
untouched by the stream of time. When people even vaguely intuit that
Ground, or their True Self, they are actually intuiting the Unborn and
Undying. And in their deepest awareness, they know that they are that, and
they cannot truthfully imagine otherwise.
This is sometimes called “the paradox of instruction.” When it comes to
Waking Up, there is not a single thing that you can do to bring this
Awakened state into existence. Just like the timeless Now, the Enlightened
Mind is always already fully present and fully functioning in your
awareness right now. AND—the paradoxical part—you still have to
recognize that this is so. It short, it takes a satori to realize that you don’t
need satori. (That’s why we’ll return to exercises that are “pointing-out”
instructions that will help you do exactly that.)
How serious are the great Paths of Liberation about this timeless Now
or a timeless and totally ever-present True Self? I usually give examples
from Zen not because I am Asian-centric but because of all of the major
Traditions, East and West, Zen places the most emphasis on actually having
a satori, a direct recognition of the ever-present reality of their True Self—a
genuine Enlightenment. So Zen says, “Show me your Original
Face”—“Original Face” means your ever-present True Self. “Show me your
Original Face, the face you had before your parents were born.” Before your
parents were born? Does this mean that your True Self is something that
existed before your parents were born? That’s symbolic or metaphoric,
right? No, actually, it’s literal and very straightforward; there’s absolutely
nothing symbolic about it. But it does not mean that your parents existed in

the stream of time, and that your True Self existed in that same stream of
time but at a point before your parents were born. Rather, it means that your
Original Face, your True Self, exists prior to the stream of time itself; it is
truly timeless, ever-present, eternal—literally. Your True Self exists prior to
your parents’ birth, prior to the birth of this earth, prior to the birth of this
solar system, prior to the birth of this galaxy because it exists prior to the
stream of time, period.
This means that you are not living in the narrow, passing present, which
is brutally squished in between a huge past and a seemingly endless future.
You are not crammed and wedged into a temporal sequence running from
the past to the passing present to the future. Rather, you are living in the
limitless Spaciousness of an all-embracing timeless Now, through which all
past, present, and future events arise within the vast openness of this
boundless, borderless Presence. You are not in the entire past-present-future
sequence, but it is within you. You embrace it all; you are open to it all, and
this awareness really does “make room for everything.” This is the
staggeringly colossal Wholeness that Waking Up delivers to all who engage
it in the paradox of instruction.
Those are some of the basic points about eternity that needed to be
made clear. They directly address the inescapable fact that virtually
everybody who has a genuine Waking Up experience feels that they are
directly and profoundly connected to an eternal, absolute, all-pervading, allinclusive Reality, which is felt not only as a Waking Up to Reality but also
as a “Coming Home,” since this is where they truly belong and always have
belonged. This Reality is a supreme Identity that is always already the case,
timeless, ever-present, eternal. This fact hits them smack in their Original
Face—and they know it.
The simplest explanation for this direct experience is not that your brain
has had a physiological meltdown and that you are deeply confused and
delusional. It’s that in the timeless Now-moment of Waking Up, you have
directly and immediately experienced the fundamental, all-pervading,
groundless Ground of All Being—which is timeless, which means everpresent, which means eternal. I honestly don’t care if you take that as

metaphoric or symbolic or just a (possibly confused) philosophical
explanation—the experience itself is what counts—and the experience itself
is “not disputable.”
Having discussed some simple explanations of eternity (and the timeless
Reality that people experience upon Waking Up), we can now briefly
address infinity, because the basic points are the same, only applied now to
space instead of time.
Similar to eternity, many people misunderstand infinity to mean “a
really, really big space.” Again, that’s pretty much the opposite of infinity. If
infinity meant “a gigantically humongous space,” then if anybody had a
spiritual awakening that seemed to disclose a reality that is infinite,
wouldn’t that mean their soul had physically and literally stretched beyond
even the Milky Way? If that were the case, it doesn’t look like many people
are going to have any infinity-disclosing satoris. Except, of course, infinity
does not mean “a really, really big space,” it means “a point without space.”
It doesn’t mean “a whole bunch of space,” it means “spaceless.” And just as
eternity, being timeless, means that all of eternity is fully present at every
point of time, so infinity, being spaceless, means that all of infinity is fully
present at every point of space. In other words, 100 percent of infinity is
totally and fully present right HERE. The other side of the planet does not
have a different infinity than this side, and Jupiter doesn’t have a different
infinity than the earth does, and so on. Put somewhat crudely, the overall
number of infinities (and eternities) is just one—which is why people feel
such a shocking Oneness across the board with a genuine Waking Up: they
are plugging into a single, nondual, infinite, and eternal Ground of All
Being that is the source, condition, and nature of all beings (and that is the
absolute consciousness that is the “not-disputable” part of this experience).
If you discover a real infinity right here, then you have discovered it
everywhere.
This is indeed why people who have a profound Waking Up experience
will often feel that they are one with even the most remote galaxies
anywhere. They truly are one with everything; they are not consciously one
with all relative truth (most of which, like the structure of quarks or the

existence of various multiverses, they actually know little about), but rather
they are one with ultimate Truth itself (which is their own true Nature and
ever-present Condition and is the same single Ground of everything else in
existence, the Nature of all natures and the Condition of all conditions).
This simple understanding of infinity and eternity is exactly where the
cliché “Be Here Now” comes from. The manifest universe exists in space
and time—usually conceived as a single spacetime continuum. But be fully
“here” and you are directly in touch with spaceless infinity everywhere
(since infinity is fully present at every point of space), and live directly
“now” and you are in touch with timeless eternity (since eternity is fully
present at every point of time). So “be here now” and you are directly in
touch with the infinite and eternal Ground of All Being—right here, right
now. This infinite, eternal Ground of Being is not hard to achieve; indeed
it’s impossible to avoid: it is literally unattainable. There is no way that you
can move from a point where it is not to a point where it is, because there is
no point where it is not—it’s the Suchness of every single point of
spacetime anywhere in existence. And you are That.
Of course, while it is definitely true that you are perfectly one with the
Ground of All Being just as you are, right now, you still need to recognize
that fact. This is the paradox of instruction: it takes a satori to see that you
don’t need a satori. That’s what Waking Up is all about, and it’s a process
that Integral takes very seriously. It is the doorway to an ultimate Truth, a
One Taste, whose realization opens you to an ultimate Wholeness that can
be found anywhere and everywhere.
And yet, oddly enough, this is just the beginning of the Wholeness that
is available to you. Big Wholeness, after all, includes 5 types of major
Wholeness, and Waking Up is just one of them. We’ll be returning to
Waking Up later in this book and will pursue it in depth; but first there are
four other major types of equally exciting Wholeness that I want to cover.
Shall we get started?
OceanofPDF.com

2
Why Do We Need Growing Up?
As we begin to explore the other major types of Wholeness that are
available to us in a truly Big Wholeness, it’s worth spending some time
discussing why Waking Up itself does not cover all of the important bases.
Waking Up can give us an infinite and eternal Wholeness, but this is,
strangely enough, not the Big Wholeness (or not the “biggest” Wholeness)
that is available to us. But the belief that Waking Up is a realization of the
biggest Wholeness is very common among those who have had a profound
Waking Up (and it’s very common among Zen students)—namely, that
Waking Up is so utterly One with everything that nothing else is needed. If
everybody could just become Awakened or Enlightened, humanity itself
would flourish, wars would end, peace would reign, and all would be well.
And certainly for the preceding several millennia, that assumption, in one
form or another, was very common, and formed the core of most forms of
religious belief.
Then, starting just a few hundred years ago, the modern sciences
emerged, rational modes of cognition supplanted more magic and mythic
modes, and the traditional mythic world of Zeus and Jehovah gave way to
the modern world of Copernicus, Darwin, and Freud. And along with these
changes, culturally sanctioned modes of Waking Up tended to decline. This
was not because there was any inherent lack in the experience of Waking
Up itself but because, in many cases, it was deeply confused with the
previous, traditional, mythic worldview, which had indeed largely been

supplanted by the rationality of a modern science. We’ll explore just what
this confusion involves and how it came about a little bit later (see chapter
14). To put it simply, a direct Waking Up experience was confused with
relatively primitive types of magic and mythic explanations of it, and so
unfortunately, a huge baby was tossed out with the bathwater.
The criticisms that modern science leveled against all forms of Waking
Up do not bear serious scrutiny, and we’ll see why as we proceed. But
Waking Up does have some significant limitations, and I want to briefly
outline them, because otherwise we might miss why there are other forms
of Wholeness in addition to Waking Up that are available to us and that are
extremely important.
I’ll first explain these limitations abstractly, but then I’ll give some very
simple examples. The Waking Up experience presents itself as a direct
experience of the unity of an ultimate Ground of All Being—or an ultimate
Emptiness one with the entire universe of manifest Form—but it gives no
specific information about that relative universe of Form. You are indeed
one with everything—a massively important absolute realization—but that
doesn’t actually tell you anything specific about anything in particular.
This limitation has been central to many of the problems of how
religion has unfolded in our history; and it’s also pivotal for individuals
today who have had this direct Waking-Up experience or satori and who
often think that this experience is all that is needed for humanity’s future
well-being. The idea here is that because this satori discloses a genuine
Ground of Being, all the world needs is this experience of Waking Up—
nothing else is really required. These dear souls, who have had a profound
satori and experienced its expansive version of Wholeness, simply cannot
believe that anything else fundamental can be added to the realization of
Waking Up.
Here’s the problem. These profound Waking Up experiences go back at
least several thousand years (and in their early shamanic forms, perhaps
tens of thousands of years). So imagine a person, say two thousand years
ago, having an ultimate Waking Up experience. The person is walking
through the woods; they see the sun glaring; they feel the earth under their

feet; they see the trees going by. At that time in history, people believed that
the sun circled the earth and that the earth itself was flat—and they
experienced themselves as separate and different from all those forms. So
this person is walking through the woods, and then all of a sudden, they
have a major satori: they go through an oceanic dissolution (as ego) and
awaken in a pure Oneness with everything (their True Self). They are one
with the sun, one with the earth, one with all the trees in the woods. They
awaken to the awesome, all-inclusive Ground of pure Being, and they are
that. That’s an ultimate Truth. But notice, they get no information,
knowledge, or truth about any specific thing or relative event in the
universe. They feel one with the earth, but they still think that the earth is
flat! They are one with the sun, but they still think that the sun circles the
earth! And they are one with all the trees in the woods, but that experience
of oneness gives them no information at all about the atoms, molecules, and
cells that make up those trees. Precisely because this Ground is one with
absolutely everything—the same infinity is everywhere—it actually gives
no specific information about any individual thing at all.
In a certain sense, this is deeply shocking. No wonder that all the Great
Religions, even though they had deep experiences of ultimate Waking Up at
their core, did not move forward very much in the relative world. They did
not produce any major rational sciences; or free their slaves; or give women
the equivalent of getting the vote; or know about the neurotransmitters
whose release correlated with their satoris; or understand anything about the
atoms, molecules, and cells making up that brain; or know about Growing
Up, Cleaning Up, or Opening Up.
This occurs precisely because all those advances (including science)
occur in the relative or finite realm. For example, take the things that we
learn as we continue to grow and develop through the various stages of
Growing Up. Growing Up does not involve the Real Self or ultimate Truth;
it unfolds in the relative world of space and time and growth and
development—in other words, it evolves. We learn relative truths from the
evolutionary realm of space and time. But the ultimate and infinite Truth
does not itself evolve; it is spaceless or infinite; timeless or eternal, and

thus, boundless and unchanging; and it has no parts and thus nothing to
evolve. In other words, the relative world is engaged in an ongoing process
of Growing Up, a developmental or evolutionary process that continuously
creates greater and greater complexity, unity, and consciousness, constantly
replacing specific lacks with greater wholeness. But ultimate Truth lacks
nothing, and so Waking Up gives a sense of utter and absolute
completeness. And, as we’ll see, these two processes—Waking Up and
Growing Up—are two quite independent processes. While the Traditions
were often quite highly attuned to Waking Up, virtually none of them were
very developed in Growing Up because humanity had not yet evolved very
much along that particular pathway; it was largely still at magic or mythic
stages. Nor were they clearly aware of Cleaning Up, Showing Up, or
Opening Up (all relative truths).
Thus, all of those new areas of Wholeness that the Integral approach has
added to a wonderful Big Wholeness essentially have to do with relative
truth. This relative truth is something that no amount of Waking Up to
ultimate Truth will show you. The single, infinite, and eternal Ground of
Being in a tree, a frog, and a human body is the same Ground, and thus
discovering that Ground will tell you nothing specific about any of them. It
shows you the Ground of All Being itself—or Beingness—but it shows you
nothing about any particular being at all.
Notice that at least three of the major types of Wholeness—Growing
Up, Opening Up, and Cleaning Up—were discovered only within the last
one hundred years or so. And anything discovered that recently wouldn’t be
included in any of the Great Religious Traditions. Nor are these new types
of Wholeness to be found in virtually any of today’s self-enhancement or
self-transformation courses.
So even when you experience ultimate or infinite Truth in a profound
Waking Up, it will reveal very little about finite Growing Up, Opening Up,
Showing Up, or Cleaning Up (all of which occur in the relative world). That
is a serious lack, which also had a profound impact on history. What makes
the Integral model so revolutionary is that it includes all these areas of
Wholeness.

It’s nonetheless still quite true that Waking Up to a genuine ultimate
Truth or “absolute consciousness” is stunningly, staggeringly important (in
addition to being “not disputable”). Of all of the 5 types of Wholeness,
Waking Up is clearly the most profound—and it is the only truth in the
world that has been cross-culturally claimed to be a genuine “ultimate
Truth” by serious investigators. (And, as I keep promising, we will be
investigating that absolute consciousness and going into specific ways to
immediately awaken that awareness in your own case, so you can make up
your own mind.)
Next, I want to explore the process of Growing Up. Understanding this
process is important because the stage you are at in Growing Up determines
how you interpret and make sense of any experience that you have—and
that includes any Waking Up experience (or any spiritual experience). This
changes everything. The Great Wisdom Traditions were, as we mentioned,
almost completely unaware of this Growing Up process. But clearly, any
genuinely Big Wholeness should include both Waking Up and Growing Up
(not to mention Opening Up, Cleaning Up, and Showing Up). And the stage
of Growing Up that you are at will determine how you interpret or explain
all of them.
So let’s look at this almost unknown process of Growing Up. We will
explore the very specific type of Wholeness that Growing Up offers, see
why it is so unrecognized, and make it very clear what this new Wholeness
is like, which you can have in your own life—if you Grow Up.
WHAT IS GROWING UP?
I’ve been discussing the importance of Growing Up, how it supplements
Waking Up, and why it is so crucial to include the Wholeness that Growing
Up offers in any sort of genuine Big Wholeness. But I haven’t really
explained what Growing Up is, let alone outlined any of its major stages.
You might be scratching your head by now. So let me provide a very brief
overview of what this process involves, and I suspect things will become

much clearer. And I think it will become obvious why I believe that this
process (and the type of Wholeness that it offers) is so incredibly important.
Start by taking any human discipline—it could be medicine, law,
mathematics, or psychotherapy. Could a six-month-old child be
accomplished in any of these? No, of course not. A five-year-old? No. A
twelve-year-old? Not likely. A twenty-five-year-old? Well, maybe, if they’re
really good.
Why is that? Because human beings grow and develop. And that means
a human being’s capacities—all of them—grow and develop. Not only do
their bones, skin, and muscles develop, but also their thoughts, emotions,
language capacity, mental capabilities, and their moral intelligence. They all
grow and develop. We are not born with any of our capacities fully
functioning. All of them have to go through some form of Growing Up.
As for the capacities that do develop or Grow Up: we have learned
fairly recently that humans don’t have only one kind of intelligence. It used
to be thought that we possessed just one major intelligence, cognitive
intelligence, which was measured by the all-important IQ test. But recently
we have discovered that humans actually have multiple intelligences,
perhaps up to a dozen different kinds of intelligences.”[1] In addition to
cognitive intelligence, we have emotional intelligence, moral intelligence,
musical intelligence, intrapersonal intelligence, mathematical intelligence,
verbal intelligence, aesthetic intelligence, and something called “spiritual
intelligence.” As we’ll explore in a moment, spiritual intelligence is a type
of intelligence that is important to develop in Growing Up, and it’s very
different from a spiritual experience in Waking Up, so please don’t confuse
these two. Working on accessing all of our multiple intelligences or lines of
development is a process I call “Opening Up.” Opening Up carries its own
particular kind of Wholeness, a Wholeness that accessing all of our multiple
intelligences can bring to us (more on that later).
Notice that a person’s multiple intelligences can be very unevenly
developed. A person can be very high in one intelligence (such as
cognitive), medium in another intelligence (such as emotional), and very
low in yet others (such as moral)—think of Nazi doctors: very high in

cognitive intelligence, very low in moral intelligence. All these intelligences
are virtually at zero when we are born, and yet all of them grow and
develop to higher and higher levels as we ourselves grow and develop.
A second thing we have learned about these intelligences is extremely
important and relates directly to the topic of Growing Up. Although these
intelligences, which are often called “lines of development,” are all quite
different from each other, they grow and unfold through the same basic
levels of development. Different lines, same levels. You can be high or
medium or low in any of those intelligences, but the scale, with its levels of
high, medium, and low, is the same for all of them.
We call this general, vertical scale—this basic measure of the levels or
stages of development—an “altitude” of Growing Up, because it represents
how high any particular intelligence or line of development has progressed.
An altitude is different from an aptitude, which refers to how well you can
do a skill at any particular level. Changing the altitude of an intelligence is
switching its level entirely. Most people have lines of development that are
at different levels or altitudes of Growing Up. You might be low in some
lines, but virtually everybody has some intelligences at a high level. You
might be low in cognitive development and a genius in emotional
development. But no matter what altitude you might be at in any
intelligence, you don’t have to feel bad about that, because you can always
increase that altitude. There are things you can do to increase the altitude of
virtually every one of these intelligences—including spiritual intelligence.
So keep all of that in mind as we go forward.
The process of increasing the altitude of lines of development—the
process of Growing Up—brings its own type of Wholeness as well. And, as
we just saw, increasing access to our different lines of development is
Opening Up. Since the levels of development in Growing Up are the same
across all intelligences, the same levels of Growing Up apply to the
different lines in Opening Up. Each increase in a level of Growing Up is
indeed marked by its own increasing Wholeness—a greater degree of
complexity, greater unity, and more consciousness in any intelligence in

which Growing Up occurs. Thus, any time that we talk about Growing Up,
it means the increase in altitude in any of our dozen or so intelligences.
There are now some two dozen major models of Growing Up that
attempt to describe those various levels of development. If you put them all
next to each other, you’ll notice that there are around 6-to-8 major levels or
stages of development that keep showing up in almost all the models. Some
models have fewer levels, some have more, but you can see the same basic
6-to-8 major levels showing up again and again. In my book Integral
Psychology, I looked at over one hundred developmental models, in order
to help create an Integral Metatheory using all of them (there are charts of
all one hundred models in the back of the book)—and you can see these
same basic levels repeatedly showing up in all of them.
The discovery of the process of Growing Up, with its 6-to-8 stages of
development, is one of the most important advances in psychology of the
last several centuries—it changes our understanding of almost everything,
as will increasingly become obvious. Growing Up is so important that we
will spend several subsequent chapters going through each of its major 6-to8 levels. But in just a moment, I will give a very simplified overview of
Growing Up that includes just 4 major stages, so we can easily see what it
involves and how it functions.
Recall that the process of Growing Up was discovered only around one
hundred years ago. That is indeed a very recent discovery. Given
humanity’s several hundreds of thousands of years on this planet, why did it
take so long to figure this out, especially given its importance? There are
several reasons, but the simplest is that you cannot see any of these stages
of Growing Up simply by looking within or introspecting (or meditating).
This is because Growing Up consists of 3rd-person structures of
consciousness, whereas Waking Up consists of 1st-person experiences or
states of consciousness. Let me explain what this means. Because structures
are harder to understand, we’ll spend a fair amount of time in this chapter
going over structures of consciousness. (States of consciousness are easier
to understand; they are simply your everyday, immediate, and direct 1stperson experiences—nothing hard about those to understand. We’ll come

back to those in the next chapter.) After all, these structures of Growing Up
are so hard to see and understand that they were not discovered until around
one hundred years ago. Why was that?
The structures of consciousness in Growing Up are very much like the
rules of grammar. Everybody brought up in a particular culture ends up
speaking that culture’s language quite accurately. They put subjects and
verbs together correctly, they use adjectives and adverbs correctly, and in
general they follow the rules of grammar of that language quite accurately.
But if you ask someone to write down all of those rules of grammar,
virtually nobody can do it. You and I right now can follow the rules of
English grammar, but I doubt we can write them down. We can’t do this
because we cannot see these structures simply by looking within.
The same is true for the structure-stages of Growing Up. (I often call
them “structure-stages” to differentiate them from “state-stages,” which are
the stages that various states of consciousness go though in practices such
as meditation—that is, from stage-1 egoic to stage-5 turiyatita.) Because
these structure-stages are like rules of grammar, which cannot be seen by
simply introspecting or looking within, we had no idea that they existed
until quite recently (which is why none of the world’s Great Traditions were
aware of them, either).
Notice that structure-stages are not the same as the various stages of
biological growth or maturation (infancy, childhood, latency, adolescence,
young adulthood, elderhood). Those stages can be seen fairly clearly. But
that’s not what the structure-stages or vertical levels of Growing Up are
like. These structure-stages are indeed much more like grammar, and no
amount of simply looking within will disclose them or their stages. And this
is why, for the three hundred thousand years that humanity (Homo sapiens)
has been on earth, it was only one hundred years ago that we spotted these
particular stages. Exactly what that means will becomes clearer as we
proceed and you begin to see exactly what these structure-stages look like.
The type of Wholeness that Growing Up offers will, I believe, surprise you
—but you’ll immediately see how important this type of Wholeness really

is. Let’s start with a simplified, 4-stage model: (1) egocentric, (2)
ethnocentric, (3) worldcentric, and (4) integrated.
A SIMPLIFIED, 4-STAGE MODEL OF GROWING UP
When a child is born, it does not easily distinguish between its own internal
world “in here” and the external world “out there.” The child cannot tell
where its body stops and the chair begins. It’s in a state that is often called
an adual “undifferentiated fusion state”—where adual means that there is
no difference or duality between the self and the other. Now this is
definitely not a nondual spiritual oneness with everything, which will be
subsequently lost to produce an “alienated ego,” and then regained in
awareness to achieve an “ultimate unity consciousness,” as many retroRomantic thinkers would have you believe. The newborn is not, in any way,
totally one with everything—that is, this structure-stage is not totally one
with matter, body, mind, soul, and spirit. Rather, it’s mostly just one with
matter, or its immediate material world—the lowest level in the Great Chain
of Being, which it confuses with its self. So adual means the self is
confused with the lowest stage—matter—whereas nondual means a real
unity with all the stages—from matter to body to mind to soul to spirit.
Each one of those stages will sequentially emerge with higher structurestages of Growing Up, until, at the very highest stage—that of spirit itself—
a pure Nonduality or total Unity will finally emerge.
So that’s the initial, adual fusion structure-stage; it’s the first of a series
of early stages where the self is narcissistic, self-centered, and egocentric.
Although the young child will develop likes and dislikes of other people
and aspects of the world, it will always fall back to treating others as
narcissistic (undifferentiated) extensions of its own self. The feminist Carol
Gilligan presents a simple 4-stage model of Growing Up (which matches
our simplified 4 stages), and she calls this first structure-stage (her level 1)
“selfish,” and Integral often calls it “egocentric.”
The next structure-stage (Gilligan’s stage 2) is called “ethnocentric.” To
demonstrate both how incredibly important this structure-stage is and why

it’s not usually spotted, I like to describe the two-colored ball experiment.
Take a ball colored red on one side and green on the other. Place it directly
between you and a young child who is still at the early egocentric structurestage, two to three years old. Turn the ball several times so the child can see
it’s colored differently on each side. Then place the red side toward the
child and the green side toward yourself. Ask the child, “What color are you
seeing?” The child will correctly say, “Red.” Then ask the child, “What
color am I seeing?” And the child will say, “Red.”
In other words, at this early stage 1, the child has no idea that you are
seeing the world from a different perspective than it does. It cannot, as we
say, put itself in your shoes and walk a mile in them; psychologists say it
cannot yet “take the role of other.” Its view, at this early stage 1, is still
limited to its own perspective—its own selfish, narcissistic, egocentric
viewpoint. And notice that its Wholeness, when it comes to self-identity, is
limited to that very narrow view as well—it’s egocentric.
But when the child reaches ethnocentric stage 2 (starting around four to
five years, and often lasting long into life), all that changes. If you now ask
the child, “What color am I seeing?” it will correctly say, “Green.” The
child’s viewpoint has expanded from its own limited egocentric stance,
where it saw only its own view, to an ethnocentric stance, where it can
actually take the role of other. It switches from an ego-centered self-sense to
an essentially group-centered self-sense (or a 2nd-person-aware self-sense).
It starts to understand deeply that other people see the world differently, that
there are perspectives contrary to its own, and that it needs to start taking
those into account. (Younger infants can understand that different people
see the world differently, but they cannot actually take any of those
perspectives.)
The major battle at this structure-stage thus shifts from how the ego can
get along with the body and its impulses (especially sex, aggression, and
power—where the main battle is egocentric) to how the ego can get along
with other egos and all the different roles they inhabit. Here, by far the most
common way to handle these conflicts is by strongly conforming to what
others say. So ethnocentric stage 2 is often given descriptors such as

“conformist,” “conventional,” “my country, right or wrong,” “nice boy,
good girl,” “mythic-membership,” “patriotic,” and so on. It’s also described
as absolutistic not because it discloses some sort of ultimate Reality but
because it treats its own views as if they were absolute, unchallengeable,
and infallibly true. Most fundamentalist and extremist groups have a strong
foothold here, as do stringent zealots and fundamentalists on virtually any
topic (fundamentalist scienticians, fundamentalist Marxists, fundamentalist
feminists, fundamentalist postmodernists, the list goes on). Structure-stage
2 is often called “ethnocentric” because people at this stage have expanded
their identity from their own self (egocentric) to an entire group of people.
In terms of Wholeness, since here one’s overall identity has switched from
egocentric to ethnocentric, one’s sense of Wholeness likewise expands from
self-centered to group-centered.
This vertical movement toward ethnocentric is good in that it expands
the Wholeness of the self’s identity from being limited to its own organism
(a selfish stage where it cares only for itself) to an entire group of organisms
(where it expands its care to an entire community). But it cannot yet expand
its identity to include all groups, all people, all humans—a degree of
Wholeness that occurs at stage 3 (which is called “worldcentric”).
The emergence of care for an entire group is why Gilligan calls this
stage the “care” stage. Here, at least, real care can emerge and be developed
for other people, and this is a stunningly important development. But it is
indeed very much an “us-versus-them” mentality, caring for those in one’s
own special group but deeply suspicious of all outsiders (or unbelievers,
apostates, heretics, or, in general, the “Other”). Still, at this care stage, the
care extended to the in-group is very genuine (Nazis truly loved their
families and their country).
That snide Nazi comment has two senses: (1) Their love was genuine; I
don’t doubt that the Nazis loved their own families very deeply. But (2)
Nazis were extremely ethnocentric. And the term ethnocentric has a
negative connotation—namely, somebody is said to be ethnocentric if they
promote or privilege a special group and are deeply suspicious of—or
bigoted and prejudiced toward—any outside “Other.” They will often see

such an Other with outright bias and bigotry (from soft prejudice to outright
aggressive hatred). That’s how most people think of a Nazi—somebody
who is wildly prejudiced and thinks, for example, that their own privileged
group is superhuman and some other group is subhuman” (for example,
Jews). That’s the second sense of that comment—namely, that most of the
truly nasty prejudice, bias, and bigotry that we encounter in this world has
at least a foothold in this ethnocentric stage of Growing Up, with its
overpowering “us-versus-them” mentality, its absolutism, and its inability
to genuinely rise beyond an ethnocentric to a truly higher worldcentric
morality and its greater Wholeness.
That next structure-stage, the worldcentric stage 3—which moves from
ethnocentric (care for a privileged group) to worldcentric (care for all
groups)—is a major, staggeringly important development. This stage
extends moral care not just to a chosen group but to all groups, to all
humans, without exception. This is why Gilligan calls her third stage not
“care” but “universal care” and Integral calls it “worldcentric.” I really
cannot overemphasize the general importance of this broad stage. It
attempts to treat all people fairly, regardless of race, color, sex, gender,
ethnicity, or creed. This structure-stage sees all humans as part of a genuine
Wholeness, a genuinely new and higher type of Wholeness. This is clearly a
universal Wholeness that all of us need to acknowledge and at least behave
as if we were aware of. This worldcentric morality and awareness—this
new and universal Wholeness—is the direct result of a genuine Growing Up
and really can’t be found elsewhere.
You might think that this kind of worldcentric morality, where we treat
all people fairly, is a common and typical view, so much so that it hardly
needs pointing out. But that is a truly mistaken view. The simplest way to
understand this is to look at something like slavery (or at how any minority
group has been historically treated by society). Most countries outlawed
slavery less than two hundred years ago, although human societies have
been engaging in it for some three hundred thousand years. And this is
where you can really see a difference between the different types of
Wholeness that Growing Up and Waking Up offer. All the cultures that first

introduced major forms of Waking Up nonetheless embraced slavery. Most
early religions did. St. Paul tells slaves to “obey your master and love Jesus
Christ.” Even American Indians had slaves—they even took their slaves
with them on the Trail of Tears.
Many of these cultures that embraced slavery (including the religious
ones) had profound practices of Waking Up; yet in all of them, their cultural
center of gravity was at the ethnocentric structure-stage of Growing Up,
which has no major objections to slavery (as long as it’s “them” not “us”
that are enslaved). Some advanced individuals in those ethnocentric
cultures had moved to higher worldcentric stages—Aristotle, is an obvious
example—but not the culture itself. In fact, it was only with the Western
Enlightenment of the eighteenth century, when the cultural center of gravity
moved from ethnocentric to worldcentric, that slavery was found morally
intolerable on a large scale. (The “us” in “us-versus-them” had moved to an
“us that includes all of them,” so all human beings were understood to have
the same universal rights, at which point slavery became detestable.) Think
about that—it was only around two hundred years ago—out of a threehundred-thousand-year history—that human beings finally realized that one
person owning another was truly an immoral act. You can see how deeply
embedded an ethnocentric view of the world is, and how rare (and recent) a
truly worldcentric view is.
The highest structure-stage in this simplified, 4-stage model of Growing
Up is generally referred to as “integrated,” “systemic,” or “integral,” since
it integrates the perspectives of all of the previous stages. Gilligan, for
example, calls her stage 4 “integrated” because it integrates masculine and
feminine modes to give a full human awareness. I think of it as integrating
all the previous stages—but the idea either way is there is yet a further
increase in Growing Up Wholeness.
We have now seen that in the process of Growing Up, we have everincreasing structures of Wholeness, in the relative realm, that go from
egocentric to ethnocentric to worldcentric to integrated. From “me,” to
“us,” to “all of us,” to “integrated.” Notice that all of those structure-stages

are holons—that is, the whole of each stage becomes a part of the whole of
the next, which is why Wholeness just increases and increases.
And this is, generally speaking, a type of Wholeness that is not obvious.
It’s not obvious because it can’t be seen “out there”—and it can’t be seen
“in here” either. If we have, say, a room of one hundred people, not all of
them will be at an integrated stage of development. In fact, research
suggests that less than 7 percent will be at that integral stage. Very roughly,
around 20 to 30 percent will be at egocentric, 60 to 70 percent will be at
ethnocentric, 10 to 20 will be at worldcentric, and 5 to 10 percent at
integral. But this isn’t something that you can see by simply looking at
everybody in the room—these stages are “interior” realities, not “exterior,”
so just staring at people or watching their behavior won’t tell you anything.
And, moreover, you can’t see these structure-stages by looking within or
introspecting, any more than you can see the rules of grammar by looking
within (even though they do exist within you, somewhere in your brainmind, just like these structures of Growing Up do).
Notice that as we introduced each of the 4 structure-stages, very likely
you did not see any of those stages coming or the new type of Wholeness
that each would bring. Once you were introduced to the sequence—from
egocentric to ethnocentric to worldcentric to integrated—they all probably
made sense. No wonder nobody figured this out until around one hundred
years ago!
Researchers discovered the emerging structures of Growing Up only
when they started studying how people acted in ways that were egocentric,
ethnocentric, worldcentric, or fully integrated and then inferred the type of
interior maps or structures that could cause those behaviors. They tested
these theories with different groups, and if they got the same results, they
concluded that a common set of interior maps or structures were
responsible. They then followed these maps as they changed over time in
different individuals, and they found that these structures always unfolded
in one direction only. For example, if somebody with an ethnocentric
structure changed their view, it always changed from ethnocentric to
worldcentric; it never went from ethnocentric to egocentric. In other words,

those maps or structures were not just different responses in general, they
were different stages (in this case, structure-stages). Growing Up had been
discovered. Hence, after spending 299,900 years of our 300,000 years on
this planet in complete ignorance about this, we finally figured out there
was a process of Growing Up.
I think you can clearly see the importance of this reality. Even quite
sophisticated measurements indicate that around 60 to 70 percent of the
world’s population are still at ethnocentric (or lower) stages, which is a
number that is truly alarming. We’re used to looking at the cause of human
conflict, hatred, and warfare as being due to economic, political, or
religious causes, and no doubt they all play a part. But with some 60 to 70
percent of the world population at stages of development that are
ethnocentric or Other-distrusting, do we really have to look much further?
Yet this is a factor that virtually all leaders—and people in general—remain
ignorant of.
Perhaps you are starting to see why the Wholeness offered by Growing
Up is indeed so stunningly important. It offers the Wholeness of humanity
itself—a profound unity of all people, regardless of their race, color, sex,
gender, ethnicity, creed, or belief. The fact that slavery was outlawed only a
few hundred years ago shows just how recent—and rare—this Wholeness
is. This Wholeness does not come with the natural territory of being a
human. It has to be culturally fostered and fought for; it must be cherished
and renewed with each generation, or it will disappear into that same black
hole where it existed for 99 percent of our history. And in your own life,
your own being and awareness, this is a path of growth and development
that you must commit yourself to in order to bring it forth fully—it’s far
from a done deal. Robert Kegan’s research, for instance, found that three
out of five people living in the United States do NOT make it to
worldcentric levels of growth (that is, some 60 percent remain at
ethnocentric levels).[2] For those at ethnocentric levels, this lack of
worldcentric Wholeness is suffered in their being as if it were a vicious
gash in the head, a gaping hole in their awareness that lets this profound
Wholeness leak out and get lost, diminishing them most of all.

We will not forget this Wholeness. It took humanity as long to discover
this Wholeness as it took to discover quarks, the Big Bang, and DNA. It is
an indelible part of the Big Wholeness that, in this book, we will be
carrying forward with us, uplifting each of us when we do so.
MAGIC AND MYTHIC STRUCTURE-STAGES
We just saw that the worldcentric structure-stages of development emerged
only around two to three hundred years ago. And the highest of those
stages, Integral, with 5–10 percent of the population, is starting to emerge
only in the first quarter of the twenty-first century. For around ten thousand
years before that, human civilization’s cultural center of gravity was mostly
at one or another of the ethnocentric-mythic stages of development, and
before that, going back perhaps fifty thousand years, mostly at one or
another of the egocentric-magic stages.
As we’ll see, developmentalists have often given those structure-stages
of Growing Up different names, depending on which aspect of development
or which intelligence they are studying. One of the most famous set of
names for these 6-to-8 Growing Up structure-stages was given by the
developmental genius Jean Gebser. As we saw, he called these stages
“archaic,” “magic,” “mythic,” “rational,” “pluralistic,” and “integral.”
Those stages correspond with our simplified, 4-stage model as follows:
archaic and magic = egocentric; mythic = ethnocentric; rational and
pluralistic = worldcentric; integral = integrated. We’ll soon see exactly what
those names mean; but for the moment, notice the “magic” and “mythic,”
which are two of the earliest and lowest levels of Growing Up. These were
the names that Gebser gave to the major egocentric and ethnocentric
structure-stages of development. They represent very important
observations, because most of the “great civilizations” emerged during the
magic-mythic stages, whereas the “modern civilizations” were largely born
with the emergence of the worldcentric-rational stage—“The Age of
Reason,” which occurred only a few hundred years ago with the
Enlightenment. These modern worldcentric stages marked the end of

slavery, as we just saw, along with the emergence of modern rational
sciences—chemistry, physics, astronomy, biology, and so on.
But the great Mythic Era (10,000 b.c.e.–1500 c.e.) saw the rise of most
of the world’s great religions as well. This is significant, because it means
that their religious texts were written from the magic or mythic structurestage of human development. And this means, among other things, that
these texts were written without any understanding of modern rational
science. And thus, with the rise of the Western Enlightenment, and the rise
of modern science, virtually all religions were tossed out, because not only
did they contain little science but they also were full of magic and mythic
stories about magical miracles and mythic supernatural beings, which were
looked upon the way today’s world usually looks at such beings as Zeus,
Aphrodite, Santa Claus, and the tooth fairy.
This was unfortunate, because among other catastrophes, this meant that
when the modern world tossed out religion in general, it tossed out both the
Growing Up and the Waking Up versions. In other words, it tossed out not
only the magic and mythic stories and beliefs found at the ethnocentric
stages of Growing Up but also all Waking Up experiences of a real
Enlightenment. Religion was gone—“God is dead”—but so was spirituality.
And the West was left with a colossal battle between science (all good) and
religion (all bad). Why did this happen? The structures of a person’s
Growing Up determines how they will interpret any experience they have.
This means that they will interpret any spiritual experiences of Waking Up
that they have according to whatever stage of Growing Up they are at, and
if they are at prerational stages—such as magic or mythic—then they will
interpret even their spiritual experiences in those magic and mythic terms.
Thus these experiences will likely be thrown out (by others who are at
rational stages) as not being rational. And this is exactly what happened in
the West. The major back ground philosophy of the modern West soon
became—and remains to this day—a rational scientific materialism.
This was indeed a catastrophe. But it is completely understandable.
Everybody interprets their experience according to the structure-stage of
Growing Up that they are at. If you are at a magic or mythic stage, you will

tend to interpret your world in magic and mythic terms. The volcano
explodes because it is mad at you; you become ill if your major God figure
is upset with you; if your crops need water, and you pray correctly to the
great earth Goddess, then it will rain. These are the types of thoughts that
are naturally produced by the magic and mythic structures of Growing Up
(just as when you were at one of those early stages, you believed in Santa
Claus and the tooth fairy). The more you move into rational stages of
Growing Up, the less tolerable those magical mythical stories become,
which is indeed what happened to the West as it moved into the Age of
Reason.
This is important not only because each of us needs to learn how to tell
the difference between Growing Up and Waking Up. It’s also important
because you can have a genuine Waking Up at any level of Growing Up—
not only at its magic-mythic stages but also at its rational and integral
stages. But if these various stages are not differentiated, then you will tend
to confuse all Waking Up with some sort of prerational stage, such as magic
or mythic, and then repeat the mistake that the Enlightenment made, which
was to toss out all Waking Up spirituality with all Growing Up magical and
mythic tales, religious superstitions, and miracles. This would repeat the socalled crime of the Enlightenment and move us toward nothing but more
scientific materialism. Science is a wonderfully important activity, but
reducing everything to science is indeed a disaster, and is certainly not
something that we want to include in any sort of a genuine Big Wholeness.
So, let’s have a closer look at this process of Growing Up and how it
comes about that our structure-stage of Growing Up interprets all of our
experience. This is necessary if we want to genuinely understand the role
that a truly Big Wholeness might play in our lives. It will also help us to
understand the important difference between Waking Up and Growing Up,
which is a central part of awakening to the reality of a Big Wholeness. And,
of course, this will help you to understand your own being and awareness
with much more consciousness, clarity, completeness, and care.
OceanofPDF.com

3
Growing Up Interprets Waking Up
The structure-stage of Growing Up that a person is at will tend to determine
how they think and feel about everything else. This gives Growing Up a
place of staggering significance. You can think of Growing Up as the major
process used to interpret our world. As you can infer from the names that
Gebser gave to each of these structure-stages (archaic, magic, mythic,
rational, pluralistic, integral), each one will interpret our world quite
differently.
This happens because human beings do not passively perceive a world
lying around them that is the same for everybody. It’s true that external
material objects—a rock, a tree, a mountain—are often perceived similarly
by most people. But the bulk of the “things” that we “see” (or are aware of)
are not simple physical objects. They are instead things such as love, mutual
understanding, concern, hatred, mercy, kindness, compassion, jealousy,
envy, anger, and care—things that are not simply lying around waiting for
all and sundry to see them, and that are the same unchanging phenomena
for everybody. The world is not just a perception; it is in part a conception.
And that means we don’t just see the world, we interpret it.
Although our capacity to see simple physical objects (a rock, a tree, a
mountain) emerges during the first two years of life (with what Jean Piaget
called “sensorimotor intelligence”), our capacity for interpretation and
explanation continues to grow and evolve across the entire spectrum of the
stages of Growing Up. And each one of the 6-to-8 major stages of Growing

Up experiences the world very differently. Each stage will thus interpret the
world differently (for example, it will interpret the world in archaic, magic,
mythic, rational, pluralistic, or integral terms).
We’ve briefly seen that the 6-to-8 major stages or levels of development
apply to around a dozen different lines of development (or intelligences).
But this means that every intelligence that we use will unfold and develop
through these major Growing Up stages. Whether it’s cognitive intelligence,
emotional intelligence, moral intelligence, aesthetic intelligence, or spiritual
intelligence, each of them will move through these same basic 6-to-8 stages.
As we noted, different lines, same levels. And since all interpretations or
explanations are products of our intelligences, all of our explanations of our
experience will go through those stages. That means that all of our
experiences—including our spiritual experiences of Waking Up—will be
interpreted or explained by the structure-stage of Growing Up that we are
at, which profoundly changes our entire view of spirituality itself.
Now you can see why I say that Growing Up interprets and explains
Waking Up. This is a fact that virtually no religion or spiritual system
anywhere in the world has yet realized (mostly because Growing Up was
discovered only one hundred years ago). Before we move on, I want to
make sure that this idea is very clear, because it is so important in
understanding the relationship between the Wholenesses offered by both
Waking Up and Growing Up. And if it’s a truly “big” Big Wholeness that
we want, this topic is crucial.
In order to see exactly what’s involved here, I’m going to use our
simplified, 4-stage model of Growing Up and show how each of those
structure-stages will differently interpret and explain an experience of
Waking Up. Although they always interact with each other in complex
ways, Growing Up and Waking Up are relatively independent. This means
that you can be highly developed in one and very poorly developed in the
other—or vice versa, and in virtually any combination. If any of the major
spiritual systems had been aware of Growing Up (and how it affects
Waking Up), they would have carefully worked out all the profound
consequences, because it massively changes what “salvation,” “liberation,”

or “enlightenment” means. But none of them were aware of the major
stages of Growing Up, and thus, no matter how advanced they were in
Waking Up, they missed this extraordinary interaction.
So let’s briefly walk through how each of the 4 structure-stages of our
simplified model of Growing Up will very differently interpret a similar
experience of Waking Up (or an ultimate Unity consciousness). Of course,
if you want to avoid anything that looks like spirituality (whether religious
or not), then instead of Waking Up you can think of any other item you like
—a building, a conversation, a grade of education—and simply notice how
differently each of the Growing Up stages will interpret it. No human being
is born with a fully functioning language, a socialized sense of reality, a
developed moral sense, or even the capacity to take the role of other. All of
those capacities, and all of our multiple intelligences, have to grow and
develop over time, a difficult and often painful process. And most
importantly, the world itself looks quite different at each and every one of
those structure-stages (and it looks different at each stage because it is
different at each stage). This is the shocking realization that the discovery
of Growing Up introduced to humanity.
So let’s start. It might initially sound fairly odd, but you can be at an
egocentric stage 1 of Growing Up and nevertheless have a real Waking Up
experience. For example, if you are Christian, you might realize that your
Real Self is a genuine Christ consciousness (using “Christ consciousness”
in its very cleanest, nondual, unifying sense), but if you are at an egocentric
stage of Growing Up, you will tend to believe that you, and only you, are
actually Jesus Christ. Sadly, our institutions are full of such unfortunate
souls (often called “schizophrenic”). I’ve often repeated the story that Ram
Dass used to tell of his brother, who was institutionalized for just that
reason. Ram Dass said that as soon as you met his brother in person, you
could immediately see that he had indeed had a very genuine and very deep
Enlightenment. Ram Dass was just back from India, where he had met
several major teachers who had had this experience of Waking Up Oneness,
and he said that it was completely obvious and unmistakable in his brother.
Due to his cultural Christian background, his brother interpreted this

realization, acceptably enough, as a pure Christ consciousness, but he could
not acknowledge the possibility that other people could have this realization
—including Ram Dass, who spent a great deal of time trying to convince
his brother otherwise, to no avail. So this is a straightforward example of
someone who had a genuine Waking Up experience—the person directly
felt a true Oneness with the entire world and realized their own Christ
consciousness—but who interpreted this experience through a very
primitive, egocentric level of Growing Up—only they can have this
experience. They instantly interpreted this Oneness as an extension of their
egoic self (just like they do with everything else). The experience was real;
the explanation was primitive. The awareness was of a selfless Self; the
interpretation was by a selfish ego. It was an authentic state of Waking Up;
but it was an archaic stage of Growing Up.
It was an authentic Self because, according to the mystics, the Real Self
enters the fetus at some point between conception and birth; some Christian
mystics have put this at around four months. In any case, by the time a
human being is born, they already have a true Witness, although they will
not become aware of this Real Self until they have a genuine Waking Up
experience. And because Waking Up and Growing Up are indeed relatively
independent, and because the Real Self is a changeless, boundless, everpresent awareness, a real Waking Up can occur at virtually any stage of
Growing Up, including the egocentric stage—where, despite their limited
capacity to take other people’s perspectives, someone can still awaken to
their own ever-present Real Self and feel that they are one with everything.
As a person continues to grow and develop, by the time they have
reached the ethnocentric stage 2, they have learned to take the role of other;
they have learned to see the world through another person’s eyes. We saw
this with the two-colored ball experiment, where the person’s identity
expands from egocentric (or self-centered) to ethnocentric (or groupcentered). There is a shift from concern with just myself to concern for a
whole group (for example, one’s family, clan, tribe, nation, or religious
affiliation, and so on)—in short, a shift from me to us, from egocentric to
ethnocentric.

A person at this structure-stage can indeed have a genuine Waking Up.
But if they are, for example, a fundamentalist Protestant (and
fundamentalist means “ethnocentric,” no matter what belief, religion, or
philosophy), then they will think that only those who have accepted Jesus as
their personal savior can have this Waking Up experience of being
“reborn.” Other people might think that they have had this experience, but
they really haven’t—in fact, it is very likely that their experience is
demonic in its source—it’s not the real thing, whatever it is. And remember
the historical examples of this: some cultures that codified Waking Up
(Hindu and Buddhist monasteries) had slaves, because that was acceptable
when interpreted by ethnocentric structure-stages (even for those with a
Waking Up experience).
Recall that Waking Up is a direct, 1st-person experience of being one
with everything, but it tells you little about the relative truths of anything. It
will definitely tell you that you are one with all beings, but it won’t tell you
what the perspective of any of those beings is (whether it is egocentric,
ethnocentric, worldcentric, integral)—and thus those perspectives will not
enter into any of the person’s considerations, which, historically, is exactly
what happened. In all of these examples, we see a genuine Waking Up, but
it was interpreted, for instance, through an ethnocentric stage. Thus, a
Christian mystic of the Middle Ages might have a profound Waking Up and
realize their own Christ consciousness and their Oneness with everything
yet still firmly believe that all unbaptized children will burn in hell forever
(or, at best, be sent to limbo). That’s an example of an authentic Waking Up
but a crude and limited ethnocentric-stage interpretation. (And yes, many
ethnocentric Nazis were extremely interested in paths of Waking Up,
including really nasty Nazis like Himmler, who plugged straight into a
Deity mysticism with a bunch of Aryan gods, and could do so precisely
because Waking Up and Growing Up are relatively independent.)
If the person keeps growing, they will move from ethnocentric to
worldcentric, from care to universal care, from an ethnocentric “us” to a
worldcentric “all of us.” Because of this, when their Growing Up mind
looks, for example, at those human beings who are being treated as property

—namely, slaves—they are collectively outraged by it. A person at this
Growing Up stage may—or may not—have a Waking Up experience. But
in any event, they will—to stay with the Christian example—begin to
interpret Jesus Christ not as the one and only son of the one and only
(ethnocentric) God and the savior of the world but instead as just one
(worldcentric) World Teacher among many other World Teachers, all of
whom have something important to teach us. Even if this person has a
genuine Waking Up experience, they nonetheless will often say that they
are Christian because, when they use their spiritual intelligence to interpret
their Waking Up experience, it interprets reality according to its own
structure, which in this case is worldcentric. And in this case, that
intelligence is most comfortable with the Christian explanatory scheme, and
so they use that scheme—as it is worldcentrically interpreted—for their
narrative content (although they will also be completely open to
incorporating aspects from other World Teachers, such as perhaps adopting
a Buddhist mindfulness practice). This can be a real Waking Up, but it is
interpreted through a high level of Growing Up—that of a worldcentric
stage that includes all of humanity.
Notice that during Vatican II, the Church admitted (I’m paraphrasing)
that comparable religious salvation to that offered by Christianity can be
had by other religions. This is a staggering leap in growth from their nearly
two-millennia-old ethnocentric claim that their religion is the one and only
true religion to an acknowledgment that Spirit is universal, worldcentric,
and open to all humans regardless of race, color, sex, or religious creed.
(One can’t help but think of Voltaire’s scream “Remember the cruelties!”—
the cruelties inflicted by the Church on millions of people when it was in its
ethnocentric stages, from the Spanish Inquisition, to witch hunts killing tens
of thousands of women, to the Crusades. Voltaire’s lament became the
heartfelt battle cry of the Enlightenment, which was the first major
worldcentric social movement in human history—which is indeed why it
ended slavery.)
Now you can clearly see the difference between Waking Up and
Growing Up and that the stage of Growing Up you are at is incredibly

important because it will interpret your Waking Up experience. It’s true that
an experience of a total Wholeness, which includes “all of us,” is the core
nature of the Waking Up experience at any of these major stages. That is,
each stage of Growing Up has an experience of Waking Up in which it feels
that it is “one with its world”—but “its world” keeps expanding in each
stage of Growing Up. It grows from just “me” that can have this realization
of Oneness (egocentric), to just “us” that can have this realization
(ethnocentric), to “all of us” (regardless of race, color, sex, gender, or
religious creed—worldcentric). So a profound sense of Oneness and
Wholeness is indeed present in a Waking Up experience at each and every
stage of Growing Up, but Growing Up does indeed grow, unfold, and
evolve through 6-to-8 major structure-stages—moving from “me” to “us” to
“all of us” to “integrated.”
We’ll get to the integral stage in a moment. For now, just let me point
out that what makes this entire concept so difficult is that you can’t tell that
the relative world is expanding just by tracking Waking Up because (1)
Waking Up tells you virtually nothing about the relative world of Growing
Up, and (2) Waking Up always gives that totalistic “one with everything”
feeling that is constant and doesn’t change. Oneness is oneness—it is
everywhere said to be a “boundless, changeless” awareness, which
represents the timeless “Oneness” or the eternal “Unity” in “ultimate Unity
consciousness,” but the way that it is interpreted grows and changes with
Growing Up. Recall Spong’s distinction between spiritual experience and
the explanation of that experience: the experience is timeless and eternal,
but the explanation exists in the world of time and evolution, where it can
unfold and develop, changing significantly as it does so.
This discovery is of stunning importance. It provides a new perspective
on what we know about spirituality and religion. It certainly explains an
enormous amount of history—for example, why Waking Up cultures still
had slavery, were often harshly patriarchal, and rarely developed rigorous
sciences. That is, the cultures that originally discovered Waking Up were
also at relatively mediocre stages of Growing Up (usually mythic,

ethnocentric) when they did so—and clearly these are two relatively
separate processes.
When religious experience is interpreted from a low level of Growing
Up (for example, egocentric or ethnocentric), we get some of the meanest
and most malicious forms of religion imaginable. Such religions are ready
to engage in things like the Spanish Inquisition, which brutally tortured
unbelievers (they’re not one of “us,” after all, they’re “Other”), or the
Crusades, which gladly killed infidels (our ethnocentric version of religion
is clearly the one and only true religion possessing the one and only true
God), and many of those who supported such practices were genuinely
awakened mystics. When religion is interpreted from an ethnocentric stage,
it is indeed the largest source of hatred, torture, and warfare in humankind’s
history; while when it is interpreted from the higher stages (worldcentric or
integral), it is one of the greatest sources of love, charity, and compassion.
That is how this brutal “paradox of religion” came into existence (the
paradox is that religion has been the source of both the greatest amount of
hatred, torture, and warfare, and also the greatest amount of love,
compassion, and care). That paradox is still with us: no matter how much
Waking Up a spiritual system might have, it is still totally ignorant of
Growing Up, and thus its students can be at any of those developmental
stages of Growing Up, no matter how primitive.
Finally, if individuals move on from the third stage to a genuinely
integrated or Integral structure of Growing Up, their interpretive capacity
for all experiences—including Waking Up experiences—will likewise move
to that larger, more expansive, Integral stage. This means, among other
things, that they will “transcend and include” the perspectives of all their
previous stages. Hence at this stage, they are dramatically more inclusive,
synthesizing, and integrating. Reaching this Integral stage also means a
person will begin to dramatically expand the areas, ideas, fields, and
disciplines that they consider true, real, or important. If they are diehard
scientific materialists, they might start considering the utter contradictions
in such views and be more open to transcendent realities; if they are
religious fundamentalists, they will start to find invaluable truths in other

spiritual systems; if they are hardheaded nationalists, they’ll be more open
to globalist views and see their understandable patriotism in the larger
context of a community of other welcomed nations and an integrated
humanity.
Finally, if individuals at this Integral Growing Up structure have a real
Waking Up experience, they will—finally!—give this ultimate nondual
Unity experience the full, whole, and deeply integrated interpretation that
such an experience calls for. In offering the greatest embrace in the realm of
relative reality, it offers the fullest amount of nonduality uniting the relative
realm with the ultimate. In other words, in offering the most amount of
Form, it provides the greatest nonduality of that Form with Emptiness; in
embracing the most amount of samsara, it gives the fullest unity of samsara
and nirvana; in providing the most amount of Earth, it discloses the greatest
unity of Heaven and Earth.
The most evolved minds of yesterday—for example, Plotinus,
Longchenpa, Shankara, Maimonides, and Schelling—have always been
pushing into not only the furthest reaches of Waking Up but also the highest
stages of Growing Up (although in ways that they did not fully understand,
since Growing Up itself was not yet discovered and thus not consciously
understood). As individuals, they were haphazardly pushing their way into
the Integral stages of development, thus offering the greatest interpretation
(in Growing Up) of the ultimate experience (of Waking Up).
However much that higher Growing Up did (or did not) occur in the
past, the good news is that today each of us have an opportunity to start
reaching this greatest consciousness that is now available. We have this
extraordinary opportunity precisely because our cultural center of gravity in
Growing Up has, in the past two hundred years, moved into modern,
worldcentric stages, and thus, each of us, growing up in such a culture, very
likely has been exposed to these worldcentric stages and therefore stands on
the brink of the next higher, Integral stages. We also have, via the Internet,
for the first time in history, basic access to every culture in the world,
including all of the cultures of Waking Up that have previously emerged,
and there are communities right now all over the world that are plumbing

the depths of these Waking Up practices and making them fully available to
anyone interested.
Nonetheless, we have already seen that, being at the leading edge of
evolution and development, these higher Integral stages are, in today’s
world, relatively rare, with only around 5 percent of the population located
at an Integral stage. Still, these structure-stages are available to any
individual that wants to make the effort to reach them. (We will discuss
what this effort involves when we discuss each of the major levels of
Growing Up, starting in chapter 5.)
All that is now required, in my opinion, is to bring together both of
these pathways—Growing Up and Waking Up—into a truly Integral
approach, capital I Integral, which means not just a particular Integral
structure-stage of development (although that stage is happily included) but
an approach that fully embraces both Growing Up and Waking Up—along
with Opening Up, Cleaning Up, and Showing Up. This would provide us
with the most complete Big Wholeness that has ever been offered in our
history.
Why not take advantage of that? Why not set your goals and aspirations
for that all-inclusive Big Wholeness that exists right now? Stated
negatively, given the fragmented, partial, and broken nature of so much of
our present world—and ourselves—what have we got to lose? Stated more
positively, just how much happiness can we endure?
Well, let’s find out…
OceanofPDF.com

4
Spiritual Intelligence versus Spiritual
Experience
Before we look more carefully at some of the details of Big Wholeness,
including practices for directly Waking Up and an Integral sexual Tantra, it
would be useful to explore some of the differences between the type of
spiritual engagement that occurs with Waking Up, which involves states of
consciousness, and the type of spiritual engagement that is involved with
Growing Up, which involves structures of consciousness. This is the
difference between direct spiritual experience (in Waking Up) and the
indirect spiritual engagement known as spiritual intelligence (one of the
multiple intelligences found in Growing Up). This is indeed another way of
talking about direct 1st-person experience (of states of Waking Up) versus
3rd-person explanation (via structures of Growing Up). These two very
different types of spiritual engagement are rarely distinguished, and
confusing them generates an enormous amount of misunderstanding and
muddleheadedness, not to mention a staggering number of historical
atrocities.
Spiritual intelligence is indeed one of the multiple intelligences or lines
of development in Growing Up, and the Wholeness it offers is dramatically
different from the Wholeness found in Waking Up (although, of course,
both are included in Big Wholeness, which embraces both Growing Up and
Waking Up). If you’re interested in spirituality in general (or Wholeness in

particular), I think you’ll very much want to be aware of the difference
between spiritual experience and spiritual intelligence.
Spiritual intelligence is an intelligence, it’s how we think about Spirit or
ultimate Reality. Anytime we think about Spirit, or form spiritual ideas, or
use words and concepts to describe Spirit, we are using our spiritual
intelligence (as opposed to a direct experience of Spirit, which is what
Waking Up involves).[1] Anytime we think about any sort of ultimate reality
or infinity or unlimited being as, for example, a mathematician or
philosopher might, we are using our spiritual intelligence. And since
spiritual intelligence is a line of development, it can go through the same 6to-8 major levels of growth and development that any line of development
can.
Hence, “spiritual” in the spiritual intelligence of Growing Up is how we
think about Spirit (or any ultimate Reality), whereas “spiritual” in Waking
Up is a direct experience of Spirit. The direct experience of Awakening or
Enlightenment is what spirituality looks like in the Waking Up pathway. If
we then think about that direct spiritual experience, give it ideas and labels,
or fit it into some sort of theology, philosophy, or metaphysics, we are using
our spiritual intelligence in Growing Up. In other words, Waking Up
involves a spiritual knowledge by acquaintance; Growing Up involves a
spiritual knowledge by description: direct spiritual experience in Waking
Up versus spiritual thinking about in Growing Up.[2]
The ways that spiritual intelligence functions in people’s lives—
including in your life—are not generally understood very well, if at all. If
you’re basically normal, you are using this spiritual intelligence all the time,
but you probably don’t realize it. We will be examining the 6-to-8 major
structure-stages that this spiritual intelligence (along with all other
intelligences) can undergo in your own lifetime. You might want to be
aware of how spiritual intelligence is manifesting itself in your awareness
right now, whether or not you explicitly believe in anything called “spirit.”
(And in just a moment, I’ll give some clear evidence that you are using
spiritual intelligence right now, whether or not you are aware of it, and
whether you are atheistic, agnostic, a true believer, or anything else.)

We saw that spiritual intelligence is one of around a dozen or so
intelligences—or lines of development—that all human beings possess.
These lines include cognitive intelligence, emotional intelligence, moral
intelligence, aesthetic intelligence, spiritual intelligence, and so on. The
crucial evolutionary point is that each of these intelligences addresses a
fundamental question that life throws at us, and over the hundreds of
thousands of years that humanity has evolved, these intelligences evolved to
address these central questions and issues. For example, moral intelligence
addresses the question “What is the right thing to do?” Emotional
intelligence addresses the question “What do I feel about that?” Cognitive
intelligence addresses “What exactly am I aware of right now?” Aesthetic
intelligence addresses the question “What looks the most attractive or most
beautiful to me?” And spiritual intelligence? Spiritual intelligence addresses
the central question “What is it that is of ultimate concern (or ultimate
reality) for me?”
The phrase “ultimate concern” was often used by Paul Tillich, the
modern genius and systematic theologian. (He also used the important
phrase “the Ground of Being,” which he borrowed from Plotinus, another
genius and integral thinker.) And then, just recently, James Fowler, yet
another brilliant pioneer, directly measured the developmental stages that
people go through when they think about their ultimate concern—that is,
the structure-stages that a person’s spiritual intelligence goes through. And
small surprise, Fowler discovered that thinking about what is of ultimate
concern goes through the same 6-to-8 structure-stages of Growing Up that
all the other multiple lines go through (Fowler found 7 stages; we’ll return
to his work very shortly). And to state the obvious, for both these theorists,
“what is of ultimate concern” is essentially synonymous with “spirit.” They
found the term so useful because almost all the typical terms—such as
“God,” “Jehovah,” or “Allah”—have so much bloody baggage (literally) or
so many mythic meanings attached to them that they are virtually worthless
(and unbelievable) today. In contrast, the phrase “ultimate concern” points
directly to a dimension in your own life that is spiritual (but not necessarily
religious) or to something that you consider to be ultimately real or of

ultimate importance, even if you think you aren’t spiritual. I said that I
would show you that you are using spiritual intelligence in your life, even if
you think you aren’t. Here goes: Make a list of all the truly and deeply
important things in your life—the most important of the most important
things—and at the top of that list is your ultimate concern. That’s your God.
You do have one. That was easy.
The point of this example is to help you start to think about “spiritual”
in new ways, which I hope will continue to happen. The shocking point,
which we will continue to pursue, is that most of what we today call
“religion” or “God” is indeed an interpretation made by Growing Up, but in
almost all cases—especially if we think in specifically religious terms—the
stage of Growing Up that is represented is a very early and fairly primitive
stage (usually magic or mythic). Although everybody still has to go through
that early stage—because in Growing Up everybody starts at square one
and moves up from there through all of the various stages—nonetheless this
early mythic-religious stage is an extremely limited place to stop your
development. Many modern people recognize this and intuitively avoid
anything that even vaguely looks or sounds “religious.” (Remember the title
of Spong’s book, Unbelievable.)
SPIRITUAL BUT NOT RELIGIOUS
Once we realize that our religious explanations and interpretations often
come from an earlier stage of Growing Up that we were once at, then we
are perfectly free to release our spiritual intelligence from its confines in
those earlier, magic-mythic stages and allow it to expand into much more
modern, postmodern, and integral forms (rational, pluralistic, or integral),
including ones that are quite comfortable with science and rationality. This
opens us to forms of “spiritual but not religious” that are staggeringly novel
and exhilarating. Not only does it open us to new ways to integrate science
and spirituality but it also opens us to genuine forms of a truly Big
Wholeness, and this almost certainly will have a profound impact on our

life—how we look at reality, how we feel about it, how we act toward it.
It’s a new world, and in this world, there is room for everything.
To return to “ultimate concern”: interestingly, and slightly strangely,
one’s concern could be almost anything. For an addict, it might be heroin.
For a six-month-old child, it’s probably breast milk. For somebody deeply
in love, it could be their mate. For a super-wealthy person, perhaps their
money. For a Christian fundamentalist, it’s very likely Jesus. For a teenager,
maybe their brand-new car. For a Marine, it might be love of country. For a
postmodernist, it might be planetary survival and climate change. Spiritual
intelligence itself doesn’t necessarily give us answers that look typically
religious. Rather, the emphasis is on what is ultimate. You use spiritual
intelligence whenever you are engaged in seriously thinking about the most
important of the most important things in your life, or the most real of the
most real realities.
Whenever you think about some sort of ultimate reality, you
automatically switch into a type of thinking that connects to the most
absolute of your concerns—something you might even lay down your life
for. But, in any event, it is of profound importance for you—in other words,
of ultimate concern—and your thinking about it is spiritual intelligence. As
we noted earlier, human beings have been assessing things that were of
utmost importance or reality for them almost from the start, and spiritual
intelligence is the intelligence that evolved to deal with such issues. And
why wouldn’t it? The existence of spiritual intelligence is really no more
surprising than that of cognitive intelligence or emotional intelligence or
moral intelligence. Did we think about what we’re aware of (cognitive
intelligence) and what we’re feeling (emotional intelligence) and what we
should ethically do (moral intelligence) and yet never think once about what
was the most important of those things in our lives?
No, we have been thinking about what is of ultimate concern virtually
from day one. Using Gebser’s terms for the major stages of development, at
the beginning we have the archaic stage of what is of ultimate concern; then
we moved into the magic stage; then the mythic-literal; and then with
modernity, we moved into rational, then pluralistic, and now integral stages

of development of our ultimate concern. Throughout the same spiritual
intelligence was evolving and responding, moving through ever higher, ever
more complex, and ever more conscious levels of Growing Up. You and I
are still doing this—still using our spiritual intelligence—because we still
have things that are very important in our lives and others that are not so
important, and we assess where things lie on this scale of importance. Our
spiritual intelligence, even when we are adults, can come from any one of
those 6-to-8 structure-stages, because today a human being has all of those
stages available. So even if we don’t explicitly believe in spirit or anything
religious, every day that we get up we will be pursuing our God.
That’s our spiritual intelligence. And notice, spiritual intelligence is
NOT spiritual experience. It’s thinking about an ultimate Ground; it’s not
directly experiencing that Ground. It exists in the stream of relative
Growing Up (as one of several intelligences, or a structure of
consciousness) and not in the stream of Waking Up (as an altered state of
consciousness or a direct 1st-person experience). As we saw, the evidence
for the existence of that radical Waking Up experience is truly
overwhelming, or “not disputable.” But such a direct and radical experience
is not the same as spiritual intelligence, and that difference is what we’re
dealing with right now.
Among other things, notice that there are around 6-to-8 structure-stages
of Growing Up (archaic, magic, mythic, rational, pluralistic, integral) and 5
major state-stages of Waking Up (gross, subtle, causal, turiya, turiyatita).
We have not yet discussed all of the stages of Growing Up; we will start to
do so in chapter 5. But we have already briefly discussed the 5 states of
Waking Up, when we discussed the 5 major state-stages of a complete
meditation and the 5 major states of natural consciousness: gross waking,
subtle dreaming, causal dreamless, turiya or Witnessing, and turiyatita or
One Taste. All the 5 state-stages of Waking Up are indeed direct and
immediate state experiences, unlike the Growing Up stages, which are all
indirect interpretations or structures of a Growing Up development. When I
talk about Waking Up experience in the singular, I mean specifically the
ultimate states of Waking Up—which are said to be turiya and turiyatita—

which are indeed quite different from any of the Growing Up stages, since
they are immediate and direct 1st-person experiences (knowledge by
acquaintance), unlike the Growing Up structures, which are merely 3rdperson knowledge by description, or interpretation.
One of the reasons that I’m bringing this up and making such a fuss
about it is that, in today’s world, both religion and spirituality are almost
always taken to mean a belief system coming from Growing Up. And
worse, religion and spirituality are usually identified with a belief system
that has been taken from one of the earlier stages of Growing Up and not
from any of the later and more evolved stages. Honestly, somewhere over
90 percent of the meanings of those “religious” words are tied to those early
magic-mythic structure-stages. This makes it virtually impossible to give an
acceptable explanation of what spiritual intelligence has to say when it
comes from any of the higher structures of Growing Up (rational,
pluralistic, or integral) not to mention coming from any sort of genuine
Waking Up, which is itself a “boundless, changeless” state that is altogether
different from any structure of Growing Up.
If you were trying to advertise for a genuinely spiritual viewpoint
coming from any of those higher stages of Growing Up, and you were using
any of the traditional words like “God” or “religion,” you would have to
start the advertisement with some sort of denial of those traditional
meanings (as I am doing here). The advertisement would have to be
something like “This is not your father’s religion” or “This isn’t the God
you think you know.”
So let it be said now that when I use the term “spiritual,” I mean it in the
“spiritual but not religious” sense—that is, a sense of a spiritual intelligence
that comes from any and all stages of Growing Up. This includes the
standard religious structure-stages of magic and mythic, but it also includes
any of the higher structure-stages of modern rational, postmodern
pluralistic, or systemic integral. In short, some sort of spiritual intelligence
exists at each stage of Growing Up, as do all the other intelligences.
It is often said that interest in religion has steadily declined in today’s
world. That’s true enough for mythic-literal religion. The “mythic” and

“mythic-literal” stages of development are aspects of ethnocentric stages. In
chapter 6, we’ll see what those terms mean in more detail. For now, I note
that they refer to stage 3 in a typical 8-stage model of Growing Up. The
mythic-literal stage of spiritual intelligence really believes that everything it
says is empirically and historically true—that the myths are all true—for
example, that Moses actually did part the Red Sea and Christ really was
born from a biological virgin. Many of the world’s great mythic religions
began at this stage, although today it is a fairly low level. As for the decline
in mythic-literal religion, in Europe those with interest in traditional mythic
Christianity is now down to less than 15 percent of the population in
virtually all countries, from Germany to Britain to France. Not only is the
mythic God dead, mythic Christianity is nearly dead.
Yet that decline refers to only one of the stages of spiritual intelligence,
the mythic-literal stage. The use of spiritual intelligence has not itself gone
down, it has simply changed its content, changed its objects, changed its
items of ultimate concern, changed its stage of Growing Up, often quite
dramatically—since now it’s coming from the rational, pluralistic, or
integral stages. But an ultimate concern is still there at every stage of
development, and spiritual intelligence is still very much being engaged.
For example, you might think about whether there is ultimate reality or an
ultimate Wholeness or an ultimate Spirit, and you might decide there isn’t
one and that you’re an atheist. Well, that’s your form of spiritual
intelligence—you’re still thinking about ultimate realities, so you’re still
using spiritual intelligence, even if you think there isn’t an ultimate reality.
Or you might think you’re just not sure—you’re agnostic. That’s also the
use of spiritual intelligence. Looked at this way, you can see that pretty
much everybody uses their spiritual intelligence, at least every now and
then.
As another example of how spiritual intelligence functions differently at
different stages of Growing Up, I want to go over two widespread versions
of spiritual intelligence: (1) the fundamentalist Christian version of Jesus
(which springs from stage 3 in a typical 8-stage Growing Up model), and
(2) a postmodern version of ecological sustainability or Gaia (which comes

from stage 6 in an 8-stage model). You might be surprised by their
differences—and their similarities.
JESUS VERSUS GAIA
We have seen that the narratives, stories, or ideas that we create when we
use our spiritual intelligence don’t have to look typically religious. But
obviously they can, and often do. If a person is a fundamentalist Christian,
for example, then the narrative created by their spiritual intelligence might
be something like this: “I accept, as my personal savior, Jesus Christ, the
Son of God, who was born of the Virgin Mary, was dead and resurrected in
three days, physically ascended into Heaven and now sits on the right hand
of God the Father. If I truly accept Jesus into my life, then I am absolved
from original sin and I will live in Heaven next to Jesus and God for
everlasting time. I know this is true, because it says so in the Bible, and the
Bible is the word of God.” That story is indeed generally backed up by a
(mythic-literal) belief in the Bible as the divine, unerring, and literal word
of God. So the ultimate concern for this person is their relationship with
Jesus Christ as God.
Because this kind of spirituality includes stories, it is often called a
narrative form of spirituality. Many of the products of spiritual intelligence
include some sort of story or narrative that is built around one’s ultimate
concern—in this case, Jesus Christ as personal savior.
A more recent, postmodern, worldcentric form of narrative spirituality
might go like this: “If we look at all of the recent breakthroughs in modern
natural science, we see the emergence of a new paradigm. This new
paradigm tells us that all the things and events in the universe are totally
interwoven with all the other things and events, so that the entire universe is
a single, great, interwoven Web of Life. The more I see myself as being
merely one of the strands in this great Web, the more I see clearly what my
true place in the world is. Quantum mechanics shows us that everything in
the universe is deeply entangled with everything else, and the more we
realize this—the more that we realize that each of us is simply one part of

the Whole—the more we will live in accord with Nature and stop the utterly
suicidal resource depletion and global warming that we are now causing,
which will soon destroy the biosphere and all human life with it.”
For this sort of person, their ultimate concern is Gaia and its ecological
balance, and so that’s what their spiritual or ultimate-concern narrative is
focused on. They might think of this as being a spiritual story, or they might
not; they might think of it as being the product of truly leading-edge
science, a genuinely new paradigm, and believe that it points to the same
interconnectedness of the universe that the great mystics have announced,
except this version is truly scientific. Either way, this narrative involves
their ultimate concern, and so they are using their spiritual intelligence
when they think about it.
As different as the content of those two belief systems are—Jesus and
Gaia—they both share the narrative form of spirituality produced by
spiritual intelligence (in Growing Up). That is, each of them is taken to be a
real, 3rd-person, objective description of reality (whether Jesus or Gaia);
they both take it to be the most true and most important reality that there is;
they both believe that if their own ultimate concern is not taken seriously,
then all of humanity itself will suffer enormously and likely even die; they
both believe that people can deviate from this ultimate concern or they can
obediently follow it and thus prevent disaster, and that this reality is the
source of their ultimate concern. Thus, when they use their spiritual
intelligence, this belief system is what comes out as the most important of
the most important things in their life. They both express this belief in a
narrative that they maintain is an objective and descriptive truth—spiritual
intelligence is, after all, a 3rd-person knowledge by description—and this
narrative (Jesus or Gaia) describes the nature of what is of ultimate concern,
why it’s important to them, why they believe it’s ultimately true, and so on.
In short, both are products of a spiritual intelligence that is found in the
Growing Up path. In a moment, we’ll see that they come from different
levels of Growing Up (stage 3 amber versus stage 6 green).
However, that their spiritual intelligence has produced a narrative
doesn’t carry any implication about whether they have had a Waking Up

experience. It might very well be that neither one has had a genuine, direct
Waking Up experience. If so, then their spiritual engagement is not with the
path of Waking Up and its direct spiritual experience but rather is with the
path of Growing Up and its indirect spiritual intelligence. They do not have
spiritual knowledge by acquaintance but rather knowledge by narrative
description. There is absolutely nothing wrong with this; in fact, it’s
extremely common. It’s common because everybody is using some stage of
spiritual intelligence almost all the time, whether or not they’ve had a
Waking Up experience. If, however, someone has a Waking Up experience,
then for the Christian (especially if fundamentalist), it will likely be
something along the lines of what St. Paul counseled: “Let this
consciousness be in you that was in Christ Jesus, that we all may be one.”
They have that type of ultimate Unity consciousness experience—a genuine
Waking Up experience—and then use their spiritual intelligence to think
about it, to elaborate it, to explain it. Often, in this fundamentalist Christian
context, this Waking Up will be described and interpreted as an experience
of being “reborn” in Christ consciousness (“Not I but Christ lives in me”).
This experience, at least at its authentic peak, can indeed be a direct
experience of a timeless, ever-present Ground of All Being; in other words,
it’s an authentic spiritual experience, as William James himself observed
about Christian mystics. But notice that, in this example of a fundamentalist
Christian, the stage of Growing Up at work is amber mythic-literal, the
mythic stage from which most forms of literal fundamentalism spring. At
this stage of Growing Up, people will very likely take the myths of the
Bible to be literally and historically true, even if they’ve had a genuine
Waking Up (hence, “mythic-literal”). We can see that is true by the sheer
number of people who call themselves “reborn Christians”; they have very
believable accounts of their own “rebirth” as a genuine Waking Up
experience, and yet still believe every word in the Bible.
We’ve already introduced the notion that all experiences—including
Waking Up experiences—are interpreted by the person’s structure of
Growing Up. In this example, the mythic-literal stage takes the Biblical
myths as true, literally. Recall that even a profound Waking Up satori

cannot correct the belief that the earth is flat, and if the person’s spiritual
intelligence is at the mythic-literal stage, it cannot correct any myths, no
matter how silly, that may be found in the Bible either.
Let me briefly expand on the notion that Growing Up interprets or
explains Waking Up. Now it’s true that some profound Waking Up
experiences are themselves without words, labels, concepts, or ideas—they
are very close to a pure experience or pure wordless awareness. But as soon
as the person comes out of that nonconceptual state—and at some point
they will—they begin to think about the experience, interpret it, ask what it
means, why it occurred; they might even place it in a very elaborate
philosophy or metaphysics. In other words, they are using their mind and its
words and concepts; that is, they are using some sort of intelligence—in this
case, spiritual intelligence (probably combined with cognitive intelligence,
but they can also use any other intelligence they want to help explain this—
emotional intelligence, moral intelligence, aesthetic intelligence, and so on).
In these cases, they will engage whatever level of development that
particular line of development is at, which means that their interpretations
and explanations will spring from that Growing Up stage, whatever it might
be. This really is unavoidable. And this is why Waking Up is always
interpreted by Growing Up, itself coming from a particular level of
development (in whatever line).
Thus, for the reborn Christian fundamentalist at this ethnocentric,
mythic-literal stage of Growing Up, even if they’ve had a genuine Waking
Up, they will very likely still think of Jesus as the one and only Son of the
one and only God, born of a biological Virgin, and think that Jesus literally
died for their sins (all ethnocentric and mythic beliefs). Further—and this is
the real problem—they often will think that the experience of being reborn
(that is, their genuine Waking Up experience) proves to them beyond all
doubt that these beliefs are absolutely true, and now they know that
Christianity is the only real and true religion. The mythic-literal stage is part
of the broad ethnocentric stages of development, and thus its beliefs are
often ethnocentric and prejudiced, even for a person with a Waking Up.
This is a perfect example of the stage of Growing Up (no matter how

primitive or “low”) interpreting the experience of Waking Up (no matter
how authentic or “high”).
We can see the same thing with the believer in Gaia or the great Web of
Life as an ultimate Reality deserving of ultimate concern. This person might
also have a direct Waking Up experience. As they step out of that direct,
wordless, nonconceptual experience of radical and unqualifiable Oneness,
their spiritual intelligence (at its particular stage of Growing Up—in this
case, green, postmodern pluralistic) begins to think about the experience,
giving it words and meaning and spinning concepts and theories about it.
Given this person’s strong Great Web or Gaia belief system, they will likely
see this experience as being a oneness not with Christ but with all of
Nature. In other words, a direct experience of Nature mysticism.
Notice that these people are not actually thinking that when they are
having the experience. That is, during that nonconceptual experience of
Waking Up, they are not thinking, “This is an experience of Nature
mysticism.” They are not thinking, “There is a great Web of Life, with
trillions and trillions of strands, and I’m totally one with all of these living
strands, therefore I have to live my life in order to be in balance with the
whole thing.” Rather, they are experiencing only a direct, nonconceptual
oneness with all their reality, a oneness with all of Nature. It’s only when
they come out of that experience and begin to engage their mind (at
whatever stage of Growing Up their particular intelligence is at) that they
start to think something like, “There is a great Web of Life with trillions of
living biological strands. I’m one with all of it, and as such, I need to live
my life so that I am completely in balance with all the other strands—my
life, my work, my diet, my profession, all of it must be brought into accord
with this great unified Web. The belief in an atomistic world is not only
wrong, it’s killing all of humanity and must be stopped. Global warming is
a good example of this, and I must fight it every way that I can.” It’s not
that such a statement isn’t relatively true; it is true for this person at the
rational pluralistic level. But the idea itself is a product of spiritual
intelligence, not direct spiritual experience.

So, if someone has experienced a direct Waking Up, they will use their
spiritual Growing Up (spiritual intelligence) to give that experience an
explanation, to flesh it out, to give it all sorts of details and descriptions. In
this example, they see reality as a Great Web of Life. The green stage is
egalitarian, because it wants to see everything and everybody as completely
equal. Thus a person at that stage of Growing Up will often interpret their
Waking Up in those terms—their ultimate concern is this great egalitarian
Web of Life.
Further, because green is a relatively high stage of development and has
already passed through the rational, universal, worldcentric stage, unlike
amber mythic, it will tend to want its beliefs to be scientific. Despite green’s
stated belief that all viewpoints are equally valid, it definitely does not
believe that Christian mythic-literal values are to be embraced. By the time
the green, pluralistic stage emerges (which is two or three stages after the
mythic-literal stage), the mythic God is long dead, and you will find very
little that looks like traditional religion coming specifically from this green
level (although, of course, this level still has its own spiritual intelligence,
which is producing the notion of a great egalitarian Web of Life). Spiritual
intelligence at this structure-stage will often try to demonstrate that modern
science itself is offering proof of the ultimate unity experience of total
interconnectedness that the Great Web claims to offer. This will frequently
include systems theory, ecological interwovenness, chaos and complexity
theories, and especially references to quantum mechanics and quantum
entanglement.[3]
Thus, at this green stage—whether or not they have had a direct Waking
Up—they will tend to arrive at the belief in a New Paradigm in Science
(with capital letters), which is what is worthy of their ultimate concern. I
say “whether or not they have had a Waking Up,” because the structures of
Growing Up offer the tools used to interpret and explain any experience a
person has—including spiritual experiences but also ordinary experiences as
well. We saw in the previous example that a fundamentalist, amber mythicstage Christian will likely believe that Jesus was born from a biological
virgin, whether or not they have had a Waking Up experience. Likewise, in

this example, someone at green pluralistic who is interested in spiritual
concerns will often adopt this New Paradigm, with or without a Waking Up.
In either case, the New Paradigm is the product of their green, egalitarian
Growing Up stage; it expresses what is “really really real” for them. It’s an
ultimate concern of their green spiritual intelligence.
Indeed most believers in this New Paradigm in Science have not had a
Waking Up realization; they are simply thinking about this oneness using
their spiritual intelligence—and that’s totally fine; it’s just not Waking Up.
We’ve spent so much time talking about the differences between Waking
Up and Growing Up in order to help us recognize one point: simply
learning systems theory, or learning about quantum entanglement, or
learning a supposed New Paradigm will do nothing to produce a Waking Up
in you. That conceptual kind of knowledge is only a knowledge by
description; it’s not a knowledge by acquaintance. It will not help you Wake
Up but will only advance your capacity to think narratively and
conceptually using the spiritual intelligence in Growing Up. It’s learning
horizontally, not transforming vertically.
And again—and I mean this: there’s nothing wrong with doing that; just
be aware of what you are actually doing. Do you want to engage Growing
Up spiritual intelligence or Waking Up spiritual experience? Be aware of
what you truly want, and learn to distinguish between these two profoundly
different types of spiritual engagement. Engaging only in theoretical
concerns—for example, thinking about a New Paradigm using your
spiritual intelligence—is not engaging in a practice of Waking Up. That
requires an entirely different approach (which we will explore later). But
because most people don’t understand or recognize the many differences
between Growing Up and Waking Up, they don’t realize when they are
practicing only one of them, and thus they are liable to confuse merely
thinking about an ultimate Reality with the direct realization of it. And
worst of all, when they engage in that New Paradigm, they might stop
seeking a real Waking Up, imagining that they have all the bases covered—
and thus their spiritual intelligence ironically prevents their spiritual Waking
Up.

Let’s finish this chapter by very briefly looking at a point that I earlier
introduced rather sketchily (with a promise to return to it)—namely, James
Fowler’s research on the structure-stages of spiritual intelligence. This is
fitting because in the next chapter we will begin examining, in some detail,
around 6 of the 6-to-8 basic stages of Growing Up. Fowler’s research gives
a detailed description of the 6 major stages we’ve only briefly mentioned so
far—namely, archaic, magic, mythic, rational, pluralistic, and integral—but
Fowler’s details on each of them are incredibly telling, and they add
enormously to our understanding of the profoundly differing ways that
human beings view their world. So we can naturally ask, with reference to
Fowler’s work, will spiritual intelligence also move through those 6 levels
of Growing Up?
The answer is a definite “Yes.” Fowler is a brilliant and pioneering
developmental researcher and theorist. In his empirical studies, Fowler
examined thousands of people and asked them about their spirituality—
what it meant to them, what was important about it, how they described it,
what they were supposed to do to keep it, how it changed their lives, and so
on. This research was about how people think about spirituality or ultimate
reality, or about what Fowler explicitly called “ultimate concern.” His
research showed that thinking about some sort of ultimate reality—spiritual
intelligence—went through 6 or 7 major stages of development. (Fowler
numbers his major stages from 1 to 6. But he also includes a stage 0, which
is the original infantile fusion stage. So depending on whether or not you
count that stage, you get 6 or 7 stages.) He was careful to separate these
stages of ultimate concern from any sort of actual Waking Up—he was not
investigating mystical experiences or direct awakenings; he was
investigating how people think about spirit, or about what was of ultimate
concern in their lives. In short, he was investigating spiritual intelligence,
which is a spiritual Growing Up, not a spiritual Waking Up.
He found that almost invariably people’s understanding of their
spirituality unfolded through 6 or 7 major stages of development, and their
spiritual viewpoints were profoundly different at each stage. These were
essentially the 6-to-8 major levels of development that all the various lines

of development go through in the process of Growing Up. Moreover, people
went through these major structure-stages of Growing Up whether or not
they had ever had a Waking Up experience. Clearly, how people think about
Spirit (Growing Up) and how they directly experience Spirit (Waking Up)
are two very different things. When we examine these stages closely in the
next chapter, you will be able to see exactly how they apply in your own
life, as well as what stage you are at yourself.
I’m not suggesting that using these structure-stages of spiritual
intelligence is something that we should do. I’m not suggesting that we
should look at our spirituality (or anything else, for that matter) through
these 6-to-8 stages. I am saying we are already doing this. It’s already
happening to us—whether we know it or not. Every one of us is going
through these stages of Growing Up in each of our multiple intelligences.
We can be at a low altitude (archaic, magic), a medium altitude (mythic,
rational), or a high altitude (pluralistic, integral) in any of them. But exist
these stages do, and they are influencing, even governing, how we interpret,
experience, and explain our reality, moment to moment. (But no matter
what stage a given intelligence is at, remember that we can always continue
our growth, development, and evolution—and that’s an important notion
we’ll come back to.)
STRUCTURES VERSUS STATES
One last, quick technical point. In the last chapter, I carefully explained
structures of consciousness, and I promised to come back to states of
consciousness and give them a decent explanation. So, let me do so now.
We’ve seen that Growing Up consists of structures of consciousness and
Waking Up consists of states of consciousness. Structures are not at all the
same as states, and this is the real reason that these two realities are indeed
so starkly different.
A state of consciousness—which is involved in any Waking Up—is a
direct, 1st-person, immediate experience. “Small” states constitute your
ongoing experience: states that are happy, sad, joyous, anxious, excited,

dejected, elated, expectant, depressed, fearful, and so forth. “Big” states are
waking (gross state), dreaming (subtle state), deep sleep (causal state),
hypnogogic (twilight awareness), turiya (pure Awareness), turiyatita (One
Taste)—and those big states include all 5 major states of consciousness in a
full Waking Up pathway (gross, subtle, causal, turiya, and turiyatita). In this
book, when I talk about states, I mean big states (unless otherwise
indicated).
But the especially important thing about states, big or small, is that
when you have one, you know it. When you experience a state, including
any Waking Up experience, you definitely know it. If you have a satori
experience of radical Oneness and feel that you are one with the entire
universe in bliss and love, you are clearly and definitely aware of it. In
other words, because these states are all 1st-person, direct experiences,
when you have one, you are always fully aware of it.
The exact opposite is true of structures of consciousness, which
comprise the stages of Growing Up. When you are at a particular stage of
Growing Up—and the structure of that stage is determining how you see
your world—you don’t necessarily know that it is happening. In other
words, while you are almost always aware of states, you are almost never
aware of structures. States are 1st-person, direct experiences; structures are
3rd-person, objective realities.[4]
Notice that since structures nearly always emerge in stages of
development (as they do with Growing Up), we often call them “structurestages,” and this is to distinguish them from “state-stages,” which refers to
states that often emerge in stages, like the stages of meditation states.
We’ve already seen that a comprehensive Waking Up meditation path
generally unfolds in 5 major stages (that is, state-stages). It’s true that many
people don’t think of Waking Up as having stages, and that’s because the
majority of people who have a Waking Up usually have just one major
awakening, not a sequence of them. They have a profound state of Oneness
experience that occurs once and then never again (which is why I often use
the term “Waking Up” in a singular fashion, as if it were a single state
instead of covering 5 natural states), although once is enough to change

their lives irrevocably and forever. But as a onetime occurrence, it is fairly
common. In fact, polls consistently show that around 60 percent of the
population have had a significant Waking Up experience, an experience that
lasts anywhere from a few minutes to a few hours, and then eventually
fades. It’s only if they take up an effective, ongoing, meditative awakening
practice that those experiences will continue to unfold through a series of
state-stages (in general, 5 of them).
But no matter how many Waking Up experiences individuals might
have, when they have a state experience, they will definitely know it; it is
indeed a direct experience that clearly enters their 1st-person awareness. In
contrast, the structure-stages of Growing Up are much more like the rules of
grammar, which we all use without knowing that we are using them. When
individuals are at a particular stage of Growing Up, they (usually) have no
idea that a particular structure-stage is governing how they interpret and
experience their world. You can see states of Waking Up by looking within
or introspecting, but you can look within, introspect, meditate, or
contemplate all you want and you will never see a structure of Growing Up
—just as you can look within right now and never see the rules of grammar
that you are otherwise following so accurately.
Thus, when a person is at a particular structure-stage of Growing Up,
that structure will largely govern their worldview, values, morals, and
interests in the relative, manifest realm (because each one of their multiple
intelligences is at one of those 6-to-8 levels of structure-stages). And yet the
person is (usually) completely unaware that this is happening. This is the
primary reason that these structures were discovered only about one
hundred years ago. They were not discovered by any of the great meditation
systems or spiritual practices precisely because they cannot be seen by
looking within, meditating, or contemplating. Thus all the Great Religions
are completely bereft of knowledge of the numerous stages in the process of
Growing Up.
And turnabout is fair play: the modern schools of developmental
psychology—which indeed discovered the major structure-stages of
Growing Up around one hundred years ago—had virtually no knowledge of

Waking Up or any of its practices and state-stages because they were
primarily studying structure-stages of Growing Up. This means that
throughout human history, if you wanted to grow or improve yourself or
discover your own highest potential, you had to choose either Waking Up or
Growing Up—there was no system anywhere in the world that included
both of them. In other words, throughout its entire history, humanity has
been practicing to be broken.
It is because states and structures are so fundamentally different that the
paths of Waking Up and Growing Up are indeed so relatively independent.
You can have a profound Waking Up experience (in a state of
consciousness) at virtually any one of the stages of Growing Up (in a
structure of consciousness). They’re two radically different things, two very
different types of transformation, with very different types of Wholeness.
This is important, because (as we will explore later) you can be very high in
Waking Up and quite low in Growing Up. And vice versa: you can be
highly advanced in Growing Up without having had a single satori or
Waking Up experience. Or you can have any mixture of the two. This is
quite important.
As for the difference in the types of Wholeness offered by Waking Up
states and Growing Up structures, we’ve already seen that Waking Up
offers an ultimate Truth (and an infinite Wholeness) and Growing Up offers
a relative truth (and a finite Wholeness). Waking Up puts us directly in
touch with an infinite Reality or a Ground of All Being, which gives us a
sense of “being one with everything”—what Jordan Peterson called an
“absolute consciousness” that is “not disputable.” But this ultimate Truth
will tell us little about the realm of relative truth—the manifest, finite world
of everyday life (except that we are “one with all of it”). We’ve already seen
several times that a Waking Up will not even tell you that the earth isn’t flat
or that it actually circles the sun.
This is where Growing Up enters the picture, since it deals with the
relative truths found in the finite realm. And one of things that it tells us is
that our everyday, finite self grows, develops, and evolves to higher and
higher stages of Wholeness in the finite realm, and it does so through a

given number of structure-stages of development (around 6-to-8 or so).
Each of these stages brings an increasing number of perspectives (from 1st
person to 2nd person to 3rd person and higher), and each of them brings a
greater and larger sense of self-identity (from “me” to “us” to “all of us” to
“all perspectives combined and integrated”), which means a greater and
greater sense of Wholeness in the finite realm.
And further, since it is the same infinite Ground of All Being that is
equally present at every point in the finite realm, a person can be at any
structure of Growing Up and have an authentic experience of the infinite
state of Waking Up—and that infinite state of Waking Up will then be
interpreted by the person’s structure of Growing Up. And that’s because,
when it comes to states and structures, Growing Up interprets Waking Up.
In other words, structures interpret states. This is especially true because the
pure Waking Up experience itself is often a state of consciousness or
awareness that is beyond words, symbols, and concepts; it is an ecstatically
free, unqualifiable, direct, nonverbal and nonconceptual experience of a
Ground of All Being, by whatever name. Because of this “nonverbal”
condition, it is often called a “mindless” state (a “cloud of unknowing,”
Zen’s “no-mind” awareness, “consciousness without an object,” “divine
ignorance,” pure “Emptiness,” “infinite abyss,” and such). But, eventually,
the person will come out of that direct experience—their “mind returns”—
and that means that one or more of their many intelligences will begin to
operate again, in order to explain the experience, give it some sort of
meaning and framework, and perhaps even elaborate it into a full theology,
philosophy, or metaphysics. But this requires using some sort of mind or
intelligence, and that means using one or more of the dozen types of
intelligences. And every one of those intelligences grows and develops
through the 6-to-8 major structure-stages of Growing Up. Hence any
Waking Up will be explained by Growing Up. When an individual
interprets one of these peak experiences, they can use only the tools that
they already have, the tools that they have already developed—and those
tools have gone through some of the major 6-to-8 structure-stages of
Growing Up. Thus, whatever Waking Up experience they may have, it will

be interpreted by the stage of Growing Up that they are at. So one of the
things that this unified Integral approach discovers is that Growing Up
interprets Waking Up.
Starting with the next chapter, I will explain the 6 major structure-stages
of Growing Up, with an emphasis on how they appear in the line of spiritual
intelligence. Keep in mind that every person alive is going through these
structure-stages of development in their own lives. And this includes the
development of their own spiritual intelligence, even if they are atheist or
nonbelievers or “new paradigm” advocates, since, as we saw, the products
of spiritual intelligence don’t have to look or sound spiritual or religious.
They only have to deal with a person’s ultimate concern or what they take
to be an ultimate reality, the most important of the most important things in
their life.
OceanofPDF.com

5
The Early Stages of Growing Up
As we begin this chapter, let’s be clear about exactly what we are
attempting to understand here. We are looking at the type of Wholeness that
is involved with the pathway of Growing Up. Growing Up itself is a
developmental pathway, laid down in its various stages during a million
years of human evolution and still evolving today. Growing Up consists of
many relatively independent lines of development—multiple intelligences
—and there are thought to be around twelve of them, such as cognitive
intelligence, emotional intelligence, moral intelligence, aesthetic
intelligence, interpersonal intelligence, spiritual intelligence, and so on. And
as different as those lines of development are, they all move, grow, and
unfold through the same basic levels of development. In this chapter, we
will be investigating these basic levels of Growing Up—as well as the type
of Wholeness each level offers.
Although these 6 levels of Growing Up are basically similar in all the
various lines of development, the way that a given level of Growing Up
appears depends in many ways on the line in which it is occurring. As you
can imagine, the same level will show up looking somewhat different in the
cognitive line, the emotional line, the moral line, the spiritual line, and so
on. Likewise, these levels will usually be given different names depending
on which line is involved. Thus, for example, the same ethnocentric stage of
development will be named “concrete operational” in the cognitive line
(Piaget), “conventional” in the moral line (Kohlberg), “conformist” in the

ego-development line (Loevinger), and “belongingness” in the needs line
(Maslow). They all refer to the same level of the Growing Up process (you
can see this in the similarity of the terms used).
Thus, coming up with just one name for each level of Growing Up that
works for all the various lines is very difficult. This is why Integral often
uses colors for each of the levels of Growing Up, especially when they are
discussed in terms of their common characteristics and not just as they
appear in a given line. Thus, we can say “orange cognition,” “orange
morals,” “orange self-identity,” and “orange aesthetics,” where “orange”
indicates the same level of altitude in all of those lines. (See figures 5.1 and
5.2 for examples.) Likewise, sometimes extremely broad terms are used—
for example, “egocentric,” “ethnocentric,” “worldcentric,” and “integrated”
(and occasionally Gebser’s “magic,” “mythic,” “rational,” “pluralistic,” and
“integral”). These terms are generally okay, too, although the way they
appear in each line does vary. So, basically, we stick with colors and a
handful of general terms.
Figures 5.1 and 5.2 depict developmental lines in the columns and
levels of Growing Up in the rows. Each line has its own terms for the levels
of Growing Up, but these levels are standardized using Integral’s color
terms, at the far-left of each diagram. We call this type of diagram an
“Integral psychograph,” and you can represent as many different vertical
lines or multiple intelligences as you wish. You can also represent your own
Growing Up and indicate where you are developmentally in each line (more
about that later).

FIGURE 5.1. Structure-stages and state-stages in development.

FIGURE 5.2. Some major developmental lines.

Notice that on figure 5.1, Waking Up is shown as a series of concentric
circles (each circle representing a different state-stage of Waking Up). This
is not a part of Growing Up but represents a fundamentally different
pathway, Waking Up, which develops or unfolds in a relatively independent
fashion (so that any circle can appear at any level or color—that is, any
state of Waking Up can occur at any structure of Growing Up).
In this chapter, and continuing through chapters 6–9, I will describe in
general terms 6 of the major and most common levels of development
(crimson, red, amber, orange, green, and turquoise).[1] This means we will
be discussing mostly the levels themselves, what these levels have in
common as they appear in each line—for example, the amber level in
general and not just as it appears in moral or aesthetic or needs
development. We will be discussing mostly levels, not so much lines.
However, because we have been focusing on spiritual intelligence, and
since we need to use some specific terms if we want to discuss any level in
detail, I will be framing the discussion with an emphasis on how the various
levels show up in spiritual intelligence. So, for example, we’ll discuss
amber in general, and then how amber shows up in spiritual intelligence.
Further, since Christianity is now the most popular religion on the
planet (with over 2 billion of the world’s 7.5 billion people embracing it), I
am also going to present the ways that spiritual intelligence appears in
Christianity at each of the 6 levels and will title each level according to the
way that Jesus Christ is interpreted by that level. This does not include the
various types of direct spiritual experience or Waking Up that a Christian
might encounter—that’s a different parameter entirely—rather these are the
ways that a Christian will interpret their ultimate concern, whether or not
they’ve had a Waking Up realization (for example, the magic level is named
“Jesus as Magic Superhero,” and the rational level is named “Jesus as
Rational World Teacher”). Because Christianity has, throughout its long
history, touched so many people all over the planet, and because almost
everybody knows at least some basic facts about Christianity, it will be
instructive to see how the interpretation of Christianity varies so
dramatically from level to level. Yet the fundamental aim is, like that of this

book itself, to help open you to a deeper, wider, and higher understanding of
your own being and awareness.
Although I will be using Christianity as an example of how these levels
of Growing Up appear, keep in mind that these are stages not of a particular
religion but of spiritual intelligence itself. These stages of spiritual
intelligence will appear no matter the religion or object of ultimate concern:
atheistic, agnostic, Hindu, theistic, Buddhist, Jewish, new paradigm, the
New Atheists, nihilists, and so on.
And, one last final point: to give a sample of the extraordinary number
of developmental models that have found compelling evidence for each of
these stages, for each level, I have provided a table listing some of the
major researchers and their names for that level (see table 1).
THE ARCHAIC-FUSION (OR CRIMSON) STAGE
TABLE 1. Equivalents to the crimson archaic-fusion stage
Researcher/system

Growing Up stage

Integral

crimson archaic-fusion

Fowler

stage 0

Freud

oceanic state

Gebser

archaic

Kegan

order 0

Kohlberg

stage 0

Loevinger

symbiotic

Maslow

physiological needs

Piaget

early sensorimotor intelligence

This is the earliest general stage of human development. Phylogenetically, it
marked the evolutionary transition from the great apes to human beings

proper (about a million years ago) and is basically just a bundle of
physiological needs. It shows up in an infant largely as a fusion state, an
almost total lack of differentiation (or lack of separation) between the infant
and its immediate physical surroundings during the first six months or so
after birth. The self-system—which will differentiate the self from its
environment and others—has not yet formed, not to any significant degree.
The infant can’t tell where its body stops and the chair begins. This indeed
represented a transition from apes’ needs and perceptions to those of
humans—so it’s marked by survival needs such as hunger and thirst,
sensations of pleasure/pain and warmth and cold, and early sensorimotor
intelligence. It’s as if this fusion state says, “You humans think you’re so
great, but you are actually just an animal, and you’re not really any different
—there’s no separation—from the entire material world.”
This state is sometimes called “adualism”—no dualism, no two-ness, no
separation—but this should be clearly differentiated from “nondualism.”
The difference is that adualism and nondualism are at opposite ends of the
spectrum of human consciousness. The adual fusion state occurs when an
organic body first starts to differentiate itself from its material environment,
and at first it’s not able to separate itself from those surroundings. To use
the Christian form of the Great Chain of Being (matter, body, mind, soul,
and spirit), it is a oneness with the lowest of those levels. The nondual state
of Waking Up, on the other hand, can embrace all of those levels (it can be
totally one with matter, body, mind, soul, and spirit)—it’s really night and
day. But there is no end to the imagination of retro-Romantic theorists who
want to see this fusion or indissociation with the material realm as being a
total union with Spirit and all of its manifestations. Their battle cry is “Back
to the Origin!” But they confuse origin with the lowest and beginning state
of evolution (that is, matter at the Big Bang), instead of the highest and
beginning state of involution (that is, Spirit, all-inclusive and prior to time
itself, or eternal). They confuse the lowest state of union with the highest
state of union, simply because both are a type of union. And the one thing
you don’t want to do with spirituality is confuse the entire Chain of Being
with its very lowest link.

Most of the earliest schools of psychoanalysis and psychotherapy
realized that, at birth, not much of a self has yet been formed, so if things go
wrong at this point, serious problems ensue—usually something like
psychosis, which is the worst form of mental illness. (In psychosis, there is
often a confusion or fusion of self and other, so it was natural to see
psychoses as originating in disturbances at this very young age.) We now
know that psychosis is mostly a neurophysiological problem, often genetic.
But in any event, this early fusion stage is definitely not the origin of
neuroses. Neuroses, unlike a psychoses, are caused when the self—after
largely being formed—represses or denies some internal thought or
impulse. Thus, a neurosis requires an active and fully formed self-system
(to repress something), and the neurotic person is still in touch with reality,
although they misinterpret it. With psychosis, on the other hand, the
psychotic person is largely out of touch with reality (they can’t tell the
difference between their own body and the surrounding environment, they
frequently hallucinate or fully imagine various realities, and so on).
In between these two dysfunctions (psychosis and neurosis), in terms of
seriousness, are the appropriately named “borderline” (and “narcissistic”)
disorders, so named because these conditions are on the border between
psychosis and neurosis. In psychosis, the self is not yet formed; in neurosis,
the self, now largely formed and actively functioning, can turn on itself and
repress aspects of its own being. In the borderline conditions, the self has
not correctly or fully formed. It is having problems getting out of the fusion
state. Therapists treating a client with a borderline condition consider it a
real advance if the client can develop the capacity to repress material and
actually produce a neurosis! These psychological problems reflect the very
primitive nature of this early adual fusion state and the difficulties that
humans have in getting out of it.
This state dominates the first six months of life. It can show some of its
remnants in conditions like borderline disorders, but it’s rarely found alone
in adults, unless there is some sort of severe brain damage, dementia,
advanced Alzheimer’s, and so on.

In a sense, this stage is not a single stage but a culmination—namely,
the culmination of the hundreds of transformations that evolution had
created up to the point where the human body itself emerged. At this
juncture—going back some million years or so—the human body fully
embraced and contained in itself all the major emergent realities (or holons)
that had ever been created since the Big Bang itself. The emerging human
body fully contained quarks, atoms, molecules, cells, and higher-level
systems (for example, muscular, nervous, digestive, skeletal), and
transcended and included the essentials of all of the previous evolutionary
stages—plant, fish, amphibian, reptile, mammal, and primate. All of those
realities were still alive and very active, and their essentials were all present
and contained within the emerging human body—all of which are referred
to as the crimson stage, archaic stage, or Maslow’s stage of physiological
needs. So again, this isn’t so much one stage as it is dozens of minor stages,
all enfolded and encapsulated in this most basic and primitive level. (Piaget
himself included six sublevels in this sensorimotor intelligence; a cat
reaches sublevel 4.)
In other words, this stage represents the result of evolution and all the
ways the human organism has had to adapt to thousands of variables in
order to stay alive—its oxygen requirements, carefully calibrated; its food
and nutrient needs, driven by a powerful hunger; its vast numbers of
sensors, adjusting each moment to pleasure and pain and altering the
organism accordingly; its need for water, hooked to a powerful thirst drive;
the beginning of its fight, flight, or freeze mechanisms, hardwired into a
reptilian brain stem; its rudimentary emotional states, wired into the
mammalian limbic system. All of these (and more) are gifts from the past
and represent the many prehuman realities, needs, and drives still found in
today’s humans, courtesy of yesterday’s evolution—and all of them are the
“archaic” needs that each human body still must meet on a day-to-day basis.
Thus, when a human infant first drinks milk from a mother’s breast,
what it is drinking is the result of 14 billion years of evolution, enfolded and
presented to it. All of those factors—which were created and emerged and
evolved over those 14 billion years—are summarized in this simple archaic

stage with its physiological needs and its beginning sensorimotor
intelligence. This stage represents everything poetically depicted in Genesis
up to the creation of Adam and Eve.
These archaic stages represent an evolution inherited from a prehuman
past, but starting at the very next stage (magic), we see the beginning of all
the human realities that started to evolve as human beings themselves began
to emerge, with Homo sapiens itself starting to show up as early as three
hundred thousand years ago.
Nicholas Wade (general science editor of the New York Times), in his
superb book A Troublesome Inheritance, points out that for liberal theorists
(especially what I will call “Leftist humanities professors,” which today
means pretty much all of the humanities in academia), evolution itself was
believed to fully operate in human organisms up until around fifty thousand
years ago, and then it completely stopped operating in humans and has not
operated since. At the time that this conclusion was reached (around six
decades ago), no major structural brain changes could be detected in human
beings after 50,000 b.c.e., and therefore evolution of human beings was
thought to have ceased by that point. (In my view, the attractiveness of the
belief that human evolution had stopped by 50,000 b.c.e. was dramatically
increased by the emergence of the egalitarian, pluralistic, postmodern stage
in development—stages 5–6—which wanted to see all humans as fully and
completely equal, with none higher, more advanced, or more evolved than
any other.) This has been a dogma of the Left for around five or six decades
now (not that the Right does any better, but, in my view, academia is largely
the province of the Left).
But the real reason that human evolution was denied by liberal theorists,
Wade points out, is that the early theories of evolution applied the idea to
human beings in ways that were often thoroughly inappropriate, inaccurate,
and often highly bigoted and repugnant—social Darwinism being a typical
example, or misuses of Nietzsche’s “superman” by the Nazis. Thus all
caring, decent people today do not even mention “cultural evolution”
because this might imply that some cultures are more highly evolved than
others. Therefore, according to these liberal theorists, we should stop

applying evolution to human beings entirely—the very attempt to do so is
said to be horribly prejudiced, and—as Wade points out—the very mention
of “(recent) evolution in human beings” to this day might likely get you
summarily fired from any Ivy League or top-notch university in the United
States.
Of course, this is all deeply mistaken. It was with all good intentions,
Wade notes, that evolution was so hurriedly tossed in the garbage bin when
it came to humans. But the massive amount of recent research done during
just the last few decades—especially in genomics and nucleic acid
reproduction—makes it absolutely certain that not only did evolution
continue beyond fifty thousand years ago but it is still active and operating
today. (As we shall see in chapter 11, “Showing Up,” evolution is occurring
right now in all 4 dimensions of reality, which I call “quadrants.”) It takes a
courageous genius like Jürgen Habermas to write a book entitled
Communication and the Evolution of Society, because the “evolution of
society” is exactly what the Left has denied and condemned for half a
century now, and on pain of having your entire career ruined, it is
something that you had better deny as well.
Unless, of course, you’re concerned with truth, which I take it that you
are. So we’ll simply notice that, starting around fifty thousand years ago
(with the magic stage of Growing Up)—when evolution was supposed to
have stopped entirely in human beings—evolution was actually just getting
started in its deeply and profoundly and incredibly important human forms.
This wasn’t the point that evolution stopped in humans; it was the point that
it literally exploded. It was nothing less than a Cambrian explosion in the
individual and collective interiors of human beings. This was exactly when
the stunningly original and brilliant forms of magic, then mythic, then
rational, then pluralistic, then integral and beyond, would soon start to
evolve and be laid down as products of a psychological and cultural
evolution staggering in its “creative advance into novelty.”[2] Evolution, in
fact, was about to evolve past the early archaic stage of proto-human
existence and begin to evolve and enact the truly human forms of
development and evolution (magic, mythic, rational, pluralistic, integral).

These were laid down, one after another, as perpetually available structures
of consciousness for human beings from each emergent point forward so
that every human being alive today has all of these major structure-stages of
evolutionary Growing Up fully available to them. Once a stage is laid
down, it remains in existence, just as the forms of atoms, molecules, and
cells remain in existence once they have emerged. That same evolution—
some view it as “Spirit-in-action”—is still alive and active right now, and it
is this “evolutionary Love” that will continue to evolve and take us into the
future, showing us eventually and quite remarkably the religion of
tomorrow, as the Face of Spirit continues to unfold, producing more and
more structures in time of that which is timeless, simply because “eternity is
in love with the productions of time.”[3]
When human beings first emerged out of this archaic ground floor, they
emerged unmistakably as magicians.
THE MAGIC-POWER (OR RED) STAGE
As the self begins to emerge and form out of the archaic, crimson, adual
fusion stage, it goes through several initial and still very primitive stages,
on the way to the first truly civilized stage, the amber mythic or the mythicliteral stage. Two stages of these primitive stages I call “magic” (or
impulsive) and “magic-mythic” (or egocentric power). The magic stage is
magic proper, where human beings themselves are believed to possess
magic powers—for example, they can make something real by thinking of
it, or they can change something by altering a symbol of it. In the next stage
—the red magic-mythic, or power stage—humans realize that they
themselves cannot actually perform magical activities but various mythic
figures such as Zeus, Jehovah, Apollo, or Venus can, and those mythic
figures are taken to be literally real (hence the name “mythic-literal”). If
human beings approach those mythic figures correctly—with, for example,
a worshipful prayer—then they can get those god figures to magically do
what they want on their behalf. Because of this power that humans have,
this is often called “the power stage,” and because this stage involves

mythic beings with magic power, I also often call it the “magic-mythic”
stage.
Because both of these early stages still involve a good deal of magic
belief and power, I’ve combined them here into a “magic-power stage.” In
table 2, you’ll see that, of the researchers who have studied these stages,
over half of them give two stages, and the others give one stage (as I am
doing here).
Note the prevalence of such terms as “egocentric,” “impulsive,”
“animistic,” and “magical” and the presence of a magic stage, which I am
combining with the next major substage—power.[4]
TABLE 2. Equivalents to the magenta impulsive-magic and red magicmythic power stages
Researcher/system

Growing Up stage

Integral

magenta impulsive-magic and red magicmythic power

Commons and
Richards

nominal actions

Fischer

single representational set

Fowler

magical (magic) and projective (power)

Gebser

magic

Graves

magical-animistic (magic) and egocentric
(power)

Kegan

impulsive (magic) and imperial (power)

Kohlberg

naïve hedonism

Loevinger

impulsive (magic) and self-protective
(power)

Maslow

safety

Selman

egocentric

Spiral Dynamics

KinSpirits (magic) and PowerGods (power)

Torbert

impulsive (magic) and opportunistic (power)

Wade

reactive (magic) and egocentric (power)

Here, at one of the very earliest recognizable stages of human evolution,
the magic-power stage, the self is just starting to differentiate itself from its
surrounding environment. Because self and other, mind and world, are still
largely fused and confused, the self thinks that if it manipulates its own
mental images and symbols, that will magically change the world as well.
This is not a real paranormal capacity; it’s simple “word magic,” where the
self believes that if it acts on the word for a thing or the image of it, that
will magically alter the real thing that the word or image represents. This is
the essence of all human magic, and it springs from this evolutionary stage
where the young organism is learning to differentiate itself from its
surroundings. It’s not a real capacity; it’s just the incapacity to tell these
things apart, so it thinks that to manipulate one is to manipulate the other.
Hence, magic!
For the most part, at this stage, the world is still a very dangerous place,
and the search for power and safety in a dog-eat-dog world is paramount.
Impulsive magic and egocentric power dominate this level. (These are often
treated as two different stages simply because they often emerge in this
order.) As I’ve already indicated, I have, for this introductory presentation,
combined these two basic stages and treated them as one. I’ll be doing this
in a few places in this presentation, but only when there is a great deal of
similarity between the combined stages, and treating them together greatly
simplifies things. So combining them gives us a magic-power stage, similar
to the stage Spiral Dynamics calls “PowerGods,” a nice term since it
focuses on the (magic) power of supernatural beings (mythic gods), which
is an idea that is very common to this stage.
Needless to say, this plays out directly in the religious sphere. At this
early red magic-power stage, there is a strong emphasis on miracles, the

supernatural, and magic in general. Almost every world religion has some
central elements that reflect this magical realism. This goes back tens of
thousands of years, where some shamanic feats perhaps reflected real
paranormal powers but many were simply magic tricks to gain power. In
Christianity, Jesus can raise the dead, cure the sick, turn water into wine,
heal the lame, read other people’s minds, fly through the sky, walk on water.
Wow! That’s a truly powerful supernatural being with lots of magic power.
Children at this early magic stage of development love Saturdaymorning cartoon shows, because the superhero can magically do anything
—zap people with x-ray vision, walk through walls, fly through the air, and
so on. That type of magical power is what is so appealing about religion to
somebody at this stage—and they want those miracles to happen to them. In
what is known as the “prosperity gospel” in Christianity, for example, if a
person believes correctly and has enough faith, they will get that new job,
get the girl, get the new car, become rich, and so on—all magically through
the power of faith in Jesus Christ.
Because, at this early stage, humans are just beginning to learn how to
differentiate themselves from their environment, there is still a great deal of
fusion between subject and object, between self and other, and thus those
realities are often fused and confused, with subjective human traits ascribed
to objects—so-called animism. (Note Graves’s term for this general stage:
“magical-animistic.”) Animism is not simply seeing nature as alive
everywhere; it’s seeing nature as alive everywhere with specifically human
traits—the volcano explodes because it’s mad at you; the sun keeps shining
because of its ongoing benevolent care for you; it rains for your crops
because nature is favorably responding to your sacrifices. Animism is a
very humancentric, anthropomorphic view of the world.[5]
We are, in this chapter, particularly focusing on the stages of Growing
Up, with an emphasis on how these levels appear in the line of spiritual
intelligence, which all humans—including atheists, even the “New
Atheists”—fully possess and often use. But in the next several sections, we
will briefly look at the historical evolution of the major types of Waking
Up, or actual spiritual experiences, which are much more rare; some

individuals go through life and never have a spiritual experience of Waking
Up at all. Waking Up, nonetheless, concerns ultimate truth and is
profoundly important, and in these following sections we will look at the
most common form of Waking Up at each of the stages of Growing Up,
starting here with the red magic stage.
We have seen that any spiritual belief—or what we’ll call “spiritual
awareness”—is the product of the stage of Growing Up that holds the belief
(that is, the structure-stage of spiritual intelligence) and any state-stage of
Waking Up that might be present. In short:
Spiritual Awareness = Spiritual Intelligence × Spiritual Experience
Or in more general terms:
Spiritual Awareness = Growing Up × Waking Up
Of course, all of these are set in an overall AQAL Matrix, which is
needed for a full Kosmic Address.[6] And if there isn’t a Waking Up
experience, then the spiritual awareness of a person is determined primarily
by the Growing Up stage itself—that is, by spiritual intelligence alone
(which is most commonly what happens).
In this chapter, we are primarily tracking the deep ways that the
Growing Up component—magic, mythic, rational, pluralistic, or integral—
contributes profoundly to spiritual awareness, because that is the
component that is always present but almost never included or understood
when it comes to spiritual consciousness. (Mostly it’s not included because
you can’t see these stages by introspecting or looking within. You have to
read a book like this, or a developmental studies text, to know anything
about these stages of Growing Up.)
During each of the major epochs of human history, as each new
Growing Up stage successively emerged and generically defined its
particular epoch—paleolithic magic, Middle Ages mythic, the modern Age
of Reason, postmodern pluralism, the coming Integral Age, and so on,
through around 6-to-8 stages of overall growth—a few individuals at each

of those stages were also having Waking Up experiences. But, as I pointed
out, I will, in the midst of the discussion of each major epoch and its
defining stage of Growing Up, make a few summary comments on the
general types of Waking Up experiences that were the most commonly
available during that particular epoch (which could be any one of the 5
major state-stages of Waking Up: gross, subtle, causal, turiya, or nondual).
In order to discuss the types of Waking Up experiences that were
common, we need some sort of theory or metatheory about Waking Up
experiences. As it turns out, I happen to have one. I’ve already introduced 5
major natural states of consciousness—namely, gross, subtle, causal, turiya
or pure awareness, and turiyatita or nondual One Taste. My metatheory
maintains that if a person’s proximate self (or central self) has an intensified
peak experience of any of those 5 major states, it results in a different type
of mystical spirituality, and these types in fact match the most common
types of mysticism that are found worldwide. In other words, when any of
those 5 states are experienced in a conscious, immediate, direct, and
intensified fashion (across a spectrum of intensity that ranges from
communion to union to identity), the result is a type of mystical experience,
and this spiritual experience differs according to the particular state of
consciousness that is being called forth in the spiritual experience itself.
THE MAJOR TYPES OF MYSTICAL EXPERIENCE
If there is a peak experience of a direct unity (ranging from communion to
union to identity) with the entire gross realm (the entire physical or natural
realm), the result is a feeling of oneness with all Nature, a Nature mysticism
(for example, a feeling of a pure interwoven unity or pure oneness with a
Great Web of Life or Gaia).
The subtle state of consciousness includes states like dreaming, and in
the dream state, there is no nature, no Gaia, no physical or natural realm,
just a “trans-physical” or “supernatural” or “metaphysical” realm of images,
fiery forms, symbols, impulses, cascading ideas, images of gods and
goddesses, and various mythic forms. If there is an experience of a direct

unity with this dreamlike, transcendental, subtle, supernatural Deity form,
the result is a subtle Deity mysticism, often marked by a vast illumination or
intense luminosity and feelings of oneness, love, compassion, and
redemption. Because all humans are born with all 5 types of natural
consciousness available to them (gross waking, subtle dreaming, causal
dreamless, turiya, and turiyatita) but are originally aware of only one of
them (the gross waking state), when they have a peak experience of any of
the other states, those mystical experiences usually seem to have some
degree of otherworldliness about them.
The next higher state, the causal state, has two major dimensions,
formal and formless. It is said to be the home of the very first and the very
subtlest Forms in manifestation, which the Greeks called the “archetypes”
and the East calls “vasanas.” Moment to moment, as Spirit gives rise to the
entire universe, the very first Forms that emerge are the archetypes, and
these Forms are said to be the forms on which all the other forms in the
universe are based. The direct experience of these Forms results in a general
Archetypal mysticism. For example, Jung said, “Mysticism is the experience
of archetypes.”[7] It’s very common in Platonic and Pythagorean mysticism
and in kataphatic or saguna (with qualities) class of mysticism. At the
highest point of this causal state, the archetypal Forms themselves shade
entirely into a formless, imageless, unmanifest realm said to be experienced
by everybody in deep, dreamless sleep. If there is a direct, conscious
experience of this dreamless, formless realm, the result is a Formless
mysticism (or infinite Abyss mysticism). This formless realm is often called
the “God beyond God,” and it’s actually quite common; the Cloud of
Unknowing is of this type.
The 4th state or turiya (pure Awareness or I AMness) is a pure Knowing
or Witnessing awareness, which itself is said to be wholly unqualifiable,
beyond all categorization (including that one), radically empty or open. If
the Witness (or I AMness) aspect is especially realized, the result is a pure
Consciousness-only mysticism or I-AMness mysticism—also known as
Unique Self, Mind-only, Absolute Consciousness without an object,
Absolute Subjectivity, or True-Self mysticism. If the unqualifiable or empty

or open aspect of turiya is more emphasized, the result is a pure Emptiness
mysticism, which often combines with the previous Formless mysticism—
these both are variations on the neti, neti (not this, not that), apophatic,
nirguna (without qualities), via negativa class of mysticism.
If the 5th state or ultimate nondual state (of turiyatita) is awakened, the
result is a Nondual mysticism—a pure Suchness, Tnusness, One Taste, or
ultimate Unity consciousness.
These are some of the most typical types of spiritual or mystical
experiences that are elicited at each of the 5 major states of consciousness
—and, as noted above, they happen to match the major types of mysticism
that researchers have claimed it is possible to experience. Sophisticated
researchers around the world have been aware of these major types of
mysticism (although they have not seen how these Waking Up experiences
are interpreted by Growing Up stages).
Take, for example, Evelyn Underhill, probably the greatest scholarpractitioner of Western mysticism. She presents four or five major statestages of mystical development, and they correlate well with the types I
have delineated. Thus, she maintains, a complete mystical development
starts with Nature mysticism (or gross-state mysticism)—so named because
a person who is at the gross waking state of consciousness expands that
consciousness to include a union with all other phenomena in the gross
state. This is a real union with all of Nature, but it leaves out the subtle,
causal, turiya, and turiyatita states, hence there is not much “vertical”
development here, just a “lateral expansion of consciousness.” Still, these
experiences are, as I said, a genuine union—not a Big Wholeness but a real
Wholeness (a Wholeness with the entire gross realm)—and thus even one
of these experiences of Nature mysticism can change a person’s life
profoundly and indefinitely.
Beyond a union with the gross, obvious, physical realm, there are states
that are considerably higher and more inclusive. Beyond Nature mysticism,
the next stage is, in Underhill’s research, what she calls metaphysical
mysticism. This includes states of archetypal recollection, contemplation
and divine love, and especially a radical illumination (in the subtle states),

which then deepens (in the causal) into what Underhill calls a divine
ignorance and even “cessation,” which is an indication, as I would put it, of
a moving into a causal Formless mysticism or even into turiya or pure
Awareness. (Turiya is a divine ignorance because turiya or the Witness is
that which knows all objects but cannot itself be known—it is the Knower,
not anything known; it’s the Seer, not anything seen; and the Knower itself
is radically unqualifiable, unnameable, and unknowable, and is thus itself
experienced as divine ignorance, which is Zen’s “don’t know mind,” pure
unspeakable Emptiness or Openness.)
Finally, for Underhill, spiritual development moves into forms of divine
mysticism. She also notes that this stage commonly begins with the “dark
night of the soul,” a concept introduced by the extraordinary St. John of the
Cross (St. Teresa’s mentor). Many people think that the “dark night” means
a period of painful searching before a person finds God and true spiritual
liberation, and the term can be used that way. But for St. John, it means
almost the opposite: it’s the state that occurs after you have had a profound
Spirit experience in which you directly know radical Freedom. When that
God passes or fades (as it initially will), the lack of that state of radical love
and bliss can leave you in what amounts to a state of real hell—and that is
the real dark night. It’s one thing to have never found God; it’s quite another
to have lost a God once found. Having the experience of an authentic
metaphysical mysticism, a person is indeed plunged into genuinely divine
states of love and bliss and radical freedom; but in order to progress to a
state of permanent union, that previous state has to be let go of, and the pain
of that can be the darkest of the dark nights imaginable.
The pain of the dark night is the pain of looking for a truly timeless and
eternal reality in states that are only of temporal and finite being, no matter
how glorified—as one mystic put it, “Fussing about in the world of time
looking for the timeless.” This is overcome by a direct realization of the
truly infinite and eternal, ever-present Ground of All Being, or Underhill’s
final state of ultimate Unity consciousness, which is not earned by diligent
practice or work, but, according to most Western mystical schools, is simply
given to all by Grace—it is fully given to you, right here and right now, and

not something earned, found, or discovered. The Eastern traditions would
simply say it is sahaja, a totally spontaneous, uncaused, ever-present reality.
Either way, tat tvam asi—“Thou art That.” Or as the universal children’s
game says, “You’re it!” And you are, indeed, It—radically one with the
infinite and eternal Ground of All Being, and hence one with everything,
something the Sufis call the “Supreme Identity.” As one Zen master put it,
“A human being’s real body is the entire universe.” And that turiyatita is
what you finally, fully, and truly are.
THE WILBER-COMBS LATTICE
These major types of mysticism, as I noted, have been recognized by
sophisticated theorists all over the world, East and West. A study of a
complete course of contemplative development (from Underhill to Daniel P.
Brown to Dustin DiPerna) shows us that these are not just five types of
mysticism, but they are also five stages (or state-stages) in a full course of
mystical or meditative unfolding. Further, these states are not dogmatic
beliefs, mythic claims, theological constructs, or some conceptual hunches
but rather direct, immediate, 1st-person experiences, so that individuals can
check out the reality of these states directly for themselves—they are a
knowledge by acquaintance, not mere knowledge by description. (Later on,
you’ll be able to judge this directly in your own case, when we go through
various exercises that will allow you to directly experience some of the very
highest of these states yourself—especially the two highest or ultimate
states, turiya (the Witness) and turiyatita (One Taste).
Now—to finish this brief mystical metatheory—since the average
individual today has potential access to all 6 major stages of Growing Up
that have emerged thus far in evolution, a person at any one of those 6
stages can experience any one of the 5 major Waking Up states. That is, any
stage of Growing Up can experience any state of Waking Up. This fact is
now generally understood and accepted and is represented by the WilberCombs Lattice (see figure 5.3).

Horizontally, across the top of the diagram, are labels for the 5 major
states of consciousness, which also represent the major realms of Waking
Up experience and thus the 5 major types of mysticism: Nature mysticism,
Deity mysticism, Formless mysticism, I-AMness mysticism, and Nondual
Unity mysticism. Vertically, along the left side are labels for the 7 major
stages of Growing Up, which govern how a person’s world is interpreted
and experienced (including their spiritual world or Waking Up realization).
Thus, across the top run the states of Waking Up, and up the side run the
structures of Growing Up.[8]

FIGURE 5.3. The Wilber-Combs Lattice.

Now, in this metatheory section, this is the most important point for
you: In today’s world, most people have potential access to every one of the
cells in figure 5.3, since evolution has unfolded that far at this time.[9] This
means that the aim of a life well lived is, starting in the cell at the lower left,

where you are located at birth (namely, the adual, archaic structure in the
gross, physical, waking state), to move, grow, and develop from there to the
cell in the upper right (namely—the One Taste state-stage experienced by
the Integral structure-stage). That growth would give you access to the most
complete and fulfilled life that you could possibly experience. It would be,
in short, the map of a life well lived. (The fact that people today have
potential access to all the cells in the Wilber-Combs Lattice doesn’t mean
that everything is sweetness and light, because something can go wrong at
every stage or level—thus the more levels, the more things that can go
wrong. We’ll address this when we get to Cleaning Up.)
So, for now, we note that the average human being today has potential
access to all 7 major stages of Growing Up and at least 5 major states of
Waking Up, however functional or dysfunctional they may be. Given the
fact that few people at archaic will have peak or plateau experiences, this
means that there are 6 major structures of Growing Up (magic, mythic,
rational, pluralistic, integral, super-integral), each of which can experience
any of the 5 major states of Waking Up, giving a total of thirty types of
structure/state experiences, or thirty types of spiritual awareness (which, as
explained above, is defined as Growing Up × Waking Up). We have
significant evidence that every one of those thirty types of spiritual
awareness are fully available today. But we’ll be focusing on experiencing
only the highest one or two of them in both of those pathways, so there’s
not nearly so many to worry about.
So that—the Wilber-Combs Lattice—is the metatheory put in a brief
form.
Let me mention that the reason why I am not promoting all 5 major
types of spiritual experience is that, in the latter part of this book, I will be
carefully and directly addressing the two highest states—turiya and
turiyatita—and I will be working to give you an immediate experience of
both. In other words, although we will not be dwelling on all 5 types of
direct spiritual experience, we will be spending a fair amount of time
working to experience the two highest or ultimate states of Waking Up itself

—the very heart of Waking Up—and that’s what is most crucial for this
particular presentation.
But none of that will give you an understanding of the stages of
Growing Up, which is why, in this chapter and chapters 6–9, we will be
walking through each of those Growing Up stages carefully, giving you
exactly that understanding.
As we scan our evolutionary past, we find that when human beings
(Homo sapiens) first began their evolutionary development on this planet
some three hundred thousand years ago, none of the higher stages of
Growing Up were yet available—humans were at the archaic stage, with the
magic stage just beginning. In the following years, the major stages of
Growing Up emerged, evolved, and became a permanent acquisition of the
human condition, so that every human being that followed had the
possibility of developing through each of the major structure-stages of
Growing Up that had evolved by that point in time and to do so in the same
order that they were originally laid down. Each time a new structure-stage
was laid down, human beings had yet another level through which they
could enact and experience their world—including their spiritual world.
As for the various states of Waking Up, access to each of them (during a
particular era) tended to depend upon the degree of evolution through the
states that had occurred in a given culture by that time. Most of the states of
consciousness are indeed just that—states of consciousness. But humans are
not born with an easy, conscious access to all of them. They are born with
conscious access only to the waking state; and thus all the higher states are
not directly realized in consciousness (a typical person dreams, for
example, but doesn’t lucid dream). In order for such realization to occur, a
person has to voluntarily undertake various practices and exercises (and
receive pointing-out instructions), and these were almost always obtained
from one of the Great Traditions (or Paths of Liberation) that were present
in their culture.
If we track these Great Traditions over evolutionary time, we find that
conscious access to each of these Waking Up states tended to unfold
historically in the order that those states are usually listed: that is, access to

these 5 states evolved from gross to subtle to causal to turiya to turiyatita—
giving rise, in order, from shamans to yogis to saints to sages to siddhas,
anchored respectively in Nature mysticism, Deity mysticism, Formless
mysticism, I-AMness mysticism, and nondual Unity mysticism. So what the
Wilber-Combs Lattice shows is that, as evolution proceeded in the Growing
Up path, it started at the archaic structure-stage, and then new and higher
levels of consciousness (magic to mythic to rational to pluralistic to
integral) successively evolved through which humans could approach and
enact their world. And simultaneously, access to the various states of
consciousness started with the gross waking state, and then proceeded to
grow and evolve through access to successively higher states (subtle to
causal to turiya to turiyatita).
THE MAGICAL NATURE MYSTICISM OF SHAMANISM
We have seen that, using the Wilber-Combs Lattice as our framework,
human beings began their history at the lowest (archaic stage) and leftmost
(gross state) position possible (that is, the lowest cell on the left)—none of
the other cells were consciously available then. So the earliest type of
spirituality that we tend to see in human evolution is shamanism—a type of
Nature mysticism interpreted largely through the magic stage.
The shamanic view often saw reality as divided into three major realms:
the lower world, the middle world (this world), and the upper world—and
the shaman understood the secret unity of these worlds and could travel to
all three of them. (This unity of the three worlds is a direct result of the
Nature-mysticism type of spiritual experience, carried out—according to
the intensity scale from communion to union to identity—mostly at the
communion degree. That’s why you don’t hear, in the shamanic literature,
of any state resembling a strong identity degree of the unio mystica type.)
The core of shamanism included the shamanic journey or “soul flight,” in
which, because of initial forays into the subtle realms, the awareness of the
shaman could “fly” or “travel” to any of these three worlds due to shamans’
unique understanding of their interwoven nature—not to mention the

adoption of a “subtle body” that could do the flying. You could think of
these journeys as similar to lucid dreams, since that’s essentially what they
were (that is, a waking-state access to a subtle, dream-state realm).
Remember, these were the very first voyages to higher, alternate states
and realms that had ever been undertaken by human beings. This means
that, as far as we can tell, this was the first time in 14 billion years that any
holon anywhere in the Kosmos managed to break through the common
sensorimotor world and began to explore the further reaches of higher states
in the spectrum of consciousness. So we can see these ventures as being
somewhat crude and a bit wobbly, as all first starts are; but we should also
recognize that they were, above all else, breathtakingly pioneering and
deeply heroic. And thus, for all the “childish” characteristics that we might
ascribe to this stage—after all, as humankind’s very first venture in this
realm, it is by definition “immature”—we should never forget that we are
standing here, truly, in the presence of greatness.
The benefits of shamanic journeying included having subtle-state
visions (engaged specifically by vision quests), discovering one’s power
animal and subtle spirit-guide, and—especially when done by the shaman
or medicine person—retrieving various types of medicine said to possess
curative or healing capacities for many types of illnesses (ayahuasca is still
a great favorite of Westerners). Shamanic journeys also included various
experiences of luminosity or spiritual light (luminosity is a typical
characteristic of the subtle state).
However, there is very little evidence that shamans accessed the causal,
turiya, or turiyatita states, as Roger Walsh, in his superb The World of
Shamanism, makes very clear, using exactly that terminology.[10]
Shamanism is best understood as a communion with the subtler aspects of
the gross realm and a beginning entry into the subtle states themselves
(which yogis would soon bring to an intense peak)—and these subtler states
were interpreted through magic stage of evolution, which had recently
emerged. In short, it was a type of magic Nature mysticism (just as much
shamanism came from the magic structure as from Nature mysticism). The
heavy influence of the magic stage on shamanism can be seen in the widely

acknowledged existence of trickery and magic deceptions practiced by
many shamans. But in most cases, these “tricks” were not immoral or even
intentionally deceptive; the shaman simply saw the world as magical in
nature, and thus acted as if that were actually the case, helping it along if
necessary with apparent “trickery.”
SUMMARY
We pick up the story of the evolution of the stages of Growing Up with a
continuation of the discussion of the red magic structure itself, because
when humans first emerged from their archaic-stage fusion with nature,
they indeed first emerged as magicians.
We noted that, during the red magic epoch, the typical spiritual belief,
which was contributed mostly by the magic stage itself, involved a type of
animism present in shamanism. It sees Nature as alive and full of
intentionality and agency. Nature is indeed all of that, but the traits ascribed
to Nature were not the Nature-centric versions of those traits; they were
human-centric, anthropomorphic, and egocentric (in keeping with the
typical characteristic of this magic-egocentric stage). Although, in some
sense, there is a type of unity that is given with this worldview, it results
more from magic indissociation and undifferentiation than from a genuine
holistic, integrated, or truly unified worldview.
We especially noted that, at this stage of Growing Up, because the
subject and object are in many ways still fused (or poorly differentiated),
people believe that altering the subject will alter the object, hence they
believe that the subject and object are magically connected (which is why
this stage is often termed “magic”). At this stage, the world is seen as
superstitious and miraculous, drenched in magic and miracles—an
enchanted world, even if dangerous and threatening. As in the practice of
Voodoo or Santería, if you make a doll representing a real person and stick
a pin in the doll, the real person will be magically hurt. Or if you do a rain
dance, nature will be forced to rain. Change the subject, and you will
change the object (change the mental image of a thing, and you directly

change the thing). This magic is indeed very animistic and egocentric. The
magic worldview is present-moment focused, impulsive (another common
name for this stage), and often power driven (as a realistic response to a
very dangerous world). It looks for miracles (or magic) in many situations
and employs special rituals, ceremonies, and spells to directly bring about
those miracles. This is what we mean when we say that when human beings
first emerged, they emerged as magicians.
For a Christian at this stage, Jesus Christ is the premier magician and
magic superhero. He can perform miracles whenever he wants—including
walking on water, raising the dead, turning water into wine, healing the
sick, curing the lame, teleporting and flying through the air, raising himself
from the dead, seeing the past and the future, reading minds. If I believe in
Jesus with sufficient faith, I will magically get the items that I ask Jesus for
—a job, a new car, more money, or success in general. Prayer is magically
capable of bringing about anything that is prayed for, if the prayer is
performed with sufficient faith. This stage is usually very
“consequentialist,” in that the amount of success that a person experiences
in this life (economic, romantic, work, financial) is a direct consequence of
the degree of faith in magic Jesus Christ.
A surprisingly common version of this magical Christianity is seen in
snake-charmer sects. The idea comes from passages in the Bible that
indicate that a poisonous snake would not, indeed could not, bite or harm a
person of true faith. So these sects actually practice handling rattlesnakes as
a way to evidence their real faith. In fact, the fairly young leader of a large
U.S. branch of these practitioners was killed in recent history—by a
rattlesnake.
This is not to say that there are no such things as miracles or that no real
paranormal events exist. In fact, several meta-analyses of tests of
paranormal capacities (ESP, clairvoyance, precognition) have concluded
that the existence of these paranormal events is “virtually certain.” I totally
agree. The point is not that real magic doesn’t exist; the point is that most of
the time when human beings think that it exists, it really doesn’t—and that
belief can indeed kill you. But all of us, deep down, have some bit of us that

does believe in magic; and we do so because every one of us began this life
believing that magic existed—and that we ourselves could perform it—and
we continued to believe that until it became genuinely clear that we could
not. We finally let go of that false belief, but that doesn’t mean that we
don’t believe that there are at least some amazing beings somewhere that
still possess that magic capacity.
Jesus Christ, for example.
OceanofPDF.com

6
The Mythic-Literal (or Amber) Stage
There are an enormous number of researchers who have found evidence for
the existence of the extremely common mythic stage (see table 3). Note in
particular the terms mythic, conformist, absolutistic, ethnocentric, and
traditional.
Since the mind has now developed the ability to take the role of an
other, how one socially fits in and conforms with one’s fellow human
beings comes to the fore in this mythic-membership world.
As magic starts to die down, it doesn’t completely disappear at first but
is transferred to a host of mythic and supernatural figures—gods and
goddesses and elemental spirits—and although you yourself can no longer
perform magic, these god-figures can. And further, they will perform magic
on your behalf if you know how to approach them correctly (for example,
with a special type of prayer; or animal sacrifice, which was and still is
quite common; or even human sacrifice and cannibalism, which historically
was not unheard of—we have empirical proof of cannibalism with some
native tribes in the southwest United States, for example).
TABLE 3. Equivalents to the amber ethnocentric mythic-membership stage
Researcher/system

Growing Up stage

Integral

amber ethnocentric mythic-membership

Commons and Richards primary actions and concrete operations

Fischer

representational mapping and system

Fowler

mythic-literal and conventional

Gebser

mythic

Graves

absolutistic/saintly

Kegan

interpersonal/traditional

Kohlberg

law and order

Loevinger

conformist

Maslow

belongingness

Selman

reflective roles

Torbert

diplomatic

Wade

conformist

Cognition becomes more complex at this stage, moving from simple
magic (which tends to operate mostly in the present, desires immediate
gratification, and is basically focused through a 1st-person/egocentric
perspective) to much more sophisticated mythic forms, which tend to
involve complex narratives, stories, and belief systems, and is essentially
focused through a 2nd-person/ethnocentric perspective (hence Gebser’s
magic stages are followed by mythic ones).
Human beings at this stage believe their myths to be literally true. Zeus
really exists. Moses really parted the Red Sea. Lao Tzu really was nine
hundred years old when he was born. Lot’s wife really was changed into a
pillar of salt. This is why James Fowler calls this stage of spiritual
intelligence the “mythic-literal” stage (which has its roots in the previous
“PowerGods” stage and develops into this stage of a conventional,
conformist, absolutistic belief in those realities).

THE LITERAL MEANING OF ORIGINAL MYTHS
Unlike the way many modern Western thinkers want to see them, myths are
not profound metaphors or analogies with deep meanings—they are simply,
literally, exactly what they say they are—accounts of historical events: God
really did rain locusts down on the Egyptians; Christ really was born of a
biological virgin; Elijah really did go straight to heaven in his chariot at
death; Lot’s wife really was turned into a pillar of salt; and so on: there is
nothing deeply metaphoric about any of that, it’s simply mythic literal.
Religions that take the myths to be absolutely and literally true are often
called “fundamentalist,” and virtually all fundamentalist religions have
roots in this amber mythic stage. The fundamentalist myths are taken as the
core of the absolute truth, as seen from this stage. And absolute here does
not mean some sort of ultimate Truth; it means that the truth presented here
is taken to be absolutistically true, empirically real, and unerring. This is
why pioneering genius Clare Graves called this stage “absolutistic.”
Questioning or doubting the absolute inerrancy of the religion is regarded as
pure blasphemy or heresy by virtually all spirituality at this level. This is
one of the things that makes moving beyond this stage so difficult—to give
up the mythic beliefs is literally to lose one’s soul and burn forever in hell.
This stance, needless to say, does not support a self-questioning and critical
attitude, and so when the next stage—which involves the emergence of
rational science—comes into being, a ferocious battle between mythic
religion and rational science is primed to occur (although, of course, it does
not have to be that way; but given the absolutistic nature of this stage, it
usually is).
The worst aspect of this “science versus religion” battle is that it
identifies science with rationality and religion with just this fundamentalistmythic stage of Growing Up, ignoring entirely Waking Up, which is never
discussed in the argument (and ignoring as well the fact that the rational
stage itself has its own form of spiritual intelligence, which you can see in
any of the many “New Paradigms”). If we want to identify religion as
dealing with the mythic-literal aspects of spirituality, then placing it

primarily at this stage is fine, more or less. But if by religion we mean
“spiritual intelligence” in general, then it is a developmental line (one of the
multiple intelligences) that is present at every level of Growing Up—
including the rational level, where science deals with empirical, objective
truth and its spiritual intelligence deals with any ultimate concern or
ultimate reality, both of which are definitely present at the orange rational
level. The typical form of this argument—“It’s just a higher (orange)
rational science versus that idiotic childish (amber) mythic religion”—is
idiotic in almost every conceivable way.[1]
We’ve seen that absolutistic beliefs usually come from this mythic
stage, which is, relatively speaking, a fairly low stage of Growing Up. This
can happen in one of two ways: (1) you can evolve and arrive at this
absolutistic stage in your own growth, or (2) you can regress to it from a
higher stage. (Your being at this stage means that all, or at least a significant
portion, of your proximate or central self is identified with this stage.) As
for (2), whenever your belief system—whatever its nature and from
whatever higher stage—is held in a fanatical and zealous fashion, and with
such an absolutistic faith that it becomes virtually unquestionable, then you
indeed tend to regress to this absolutistic stage. After all, with that
ferociously absolutistic attitude, you feel really at home. When science
becomes scientism, when Marxism becomes a fundamentalist religion, and
the same with feminism, racism, or sexism—beliefs become endowed with
a mythic-literal absolutism. The belief that they have the one and only Truth
is indeed just a myth—but it is taken very seriously, very literally, as it
were. There is a premium on conformity with this absolutely believed truth
—in fact, many psychological models call this stage the “conformist” stage.
“Mythic membership” is also a good description of this stage, as are
“absolutistic” and “ethnocentric” (your tribe, and only your tribe, has the
ultimate truth).
A mythically interpreted subtle God itself tends to be full of magic
power, and the major role of human creatures—at this mythic stage—is
figuring out how to act toward this God so as to fulfill its commandments
and covenants, or how to please this God so as to receive some of its magic

boons. In its most intense forms, a chosen people (a deeply ethnocentric
notion, which is in keeping with this level) is handed the one and only
absolute Truth from the one and only God, and their deeply ethnocentric
attitude to the rest of the world is some form of jihad—which means to
convert, coerce, torture, or kill infidels until they accept the one and only
true God. The intensity of jihad runs from the gentlest version (missionary
conversion) to more forceful forms (attempted coercion) to the most brutal
versions (torture and death for all unbelievers). It is astonishing that, in all
of these cases, their jihad is backed by the belief that this group of people—
and only this group—is a chosen people who have the absolute sanction of
nothing less than the ultimate God of the universe. (This profoundly
ethnocentric belief structure comes almost entirely from the amber mythic
stage of Growing Up, no matter what state of Waking Up, if any, a person
might be experiencing.)
If any Waking Up elements are present, they are often an awakening to
a broad range of subtle dreamlike states (in a Deity mysticism). Since the
subtle state is also said to be the source of dreams, consciously awakening
to that state is very like what we today would call a “lucid dream.” And
lucid dreams change everything.
First, let me say something about the Growing Up structure that would
have interpreted that subtle Waking Up state, because these “relative” states
of Waking Up (that is, gross, subtle, and causal) especially need to be seen
in light of what is interpreting them. Evolution at this stage had indeed, in a
leading-edge way, transformed upwardly from egocentric-magic to
ethnocentric-mythic. Whether that transformation was good or bad depends
largely upon the direction from which you look at it. From the egocentric
level, the ethnocentric level is a major step up and a truly significant
advance. It introduces the extensive capacity to take the role of an other (a
truly 2nd-person perspective), thus expanding human identity from small
egocentric clans and tribes to megatribes and much larger ethnocentric
societies, and increasing the degree of care and love that one group of
humans can extend to others (remember that, according to Carol Gilligan,
this ethnocentric stage is named not “selfish” but “care”). For this reason,

this stage should always be included (or more technically, “transcended and
included”) in any healthy development in today’s world.
But looked at from the higher view of orange worldcentric rationality
(the next major stage), this amber ethnocentric stage is something of a
nightmare. Humanity is in the slow and painful process of being able to join
together, into social collectives, one human being after another human
being after another—from extremely small clans (forty people at most), to
bigger tribes (a hundred people), to small villages (thousands of people), to
larger towns (tens of thousands), to major cities (hundreds of thousands), to
massive empires (millions of people), and eventually to a staggeringly huge
global village (of some 7–8 billion people). Humanity was not born loving
its neighbor (or more than a small clan of them); it had to grow and evolve
into that capacity for care and a social structure that would hold it, and from
all indicators this was a very long and difficult road. At amber ethnocentric,
humanity was, so to speak, right in the middle of that growth—it had
hooked together many tribes into early city-states on the way to extremely
large empires and finally to a worldcentric global village. At this mythic
stage, it had gone from “me” to “us”—but it still hadn’t gone from “us” to
“all of us”—it had not yet gone from ethnocentric to worldcentric. It still
divided the world into “us versus them,” and “them” (the “Other”) was
inherently the enemy—they are not to be trusted; they are to be hated; they
are infidels, apostates, and unbelievers; and they must either be converted
or erased.
Thus, in the great spectrum of Growing Up, this is the great in-between
realm—the ethnocentric “us” in between egocentric “me” and worldcentric
“all of us”—that would generate the greatest source of hatred, murder,
slavery, warfare, and all-around brutality than any other period in all
humankind’s history. Wherever and whenever it appears, this mythic stage
absolutistically divides the world into “us versus them” and then often
attempts to wreak havoc on “them.” This occurred, not just during the
historical period that we are now looking at, but throughout all subsequent
history, because everybody is born at square one and has to develop through
all the levels of Growing Up that have emerged thus far, and from that time

in history forward, an amber ethnocentric level was available to all. Thus,
even in the twentieth century, it was Hitler’s ethnocentric racism that led to
the murders of some thirteen million people (including six million Jews as
“Other”); believable estimates put the number of Stalin’s Gulag murders at
1.7 million and the number murdered during Mao Tse-tung’s “cultural
revolution” at close to 1.5 million—all of them driven by an ethnocentric
chosen people who had absolute truth.
Since the vast number of the Great Religions were born in this amber
ethnocentric “in-between” period, religion itself often carried forward this
brutality. Even in the modern and postmodern eras of worldcentric
rationality and pluralism, the movements that engaged in truly barbaric and
murderous actions were those that, if they had not started at this amber
stage, regressed to it, treating their own ideas as a fundamentalist and
absolutistic religion, with all unbelievers and apostates deserving anything
from disregard to intense violence. At this ethnocentric mythic stage,
humanity had reached the point where it could expand its social boundaries
from an egocentric “me” to an ethnocentric group or “us.” The boundaries
expanded enough to include dozens or even hundreds of other tribes but not
enough that it could worldcentrically include all tribes and reach a universal
level of inclusion, and thus desire to treat all humans fairly, “regardless of
race, color, sex, gender, ethnicity, or religious creed.” And thus, throughout
this great “in-between” period, there might be a degree of love within the
megatribes, and vicious brutality between them.
Yet year by year, humanity demonstrated less and less violence—and
this corresponded precisely with the ever-increasing growth of humanity’s
social boundaries to include more and more human beings, until virtually
the entire human race was worldcentrically included, and then it became a
widely valued ideal to treat all humans with care and respect, regardless of
the color of their skin, their sex, or their ethnicity. (Remember that Gilligan
called this worldcentric stage not “care” but “universal care.”)
Yet, as we just noted, once a stage has emerged, it remains in existence,
and thus the amber ethnocentric level—once activated—would eventually,
in the modern world, drive everything from the Holocaust to the Gulag to

worldwide terrorism. So, at this point in the narrative, we are still in this
great “in-between” period, and the “in-between” is often hell.
A MYTHIC SUBTLE STATE
At this time in the Growing Up pathway, the majority (or at least a
plurality) of people had moved to the amber mythic stage, while around
one-third or so remained at the magic stage, and a very small number
pushed ahead into an orange rational-modern stage. And from any of those
Growing Up stages, an individual could have a variety of Waking Up
experiences—experiences of a gross-state Nature mysticism (access to
which had already emerged during the previous magic era), or a subtle-state
Deity mysticism (access to which fully emerges during this mythic era), or
for a few at the leading edge, a higher causal-state Formless mysticism
(access to which would fully emerge at the next major era, or orange)—
with the most common and most sanctioned form of advanced spirituality
being a mythic-stage interpretation of a subtle-state Deity, or simply a
mythic Deity religion. The subtle-state elements (from the Waking Up
dimension) make this Spirit a subtle-state Spirit indeed, a Spirit often felt to
be composed of subtle, transcendental, dreamlike, otherworldly,
supernatural, metaphysical qualities. The mythic elements (from the
Growing Up dimension) interpret this subtle-state (Waking Up) Spirit as
being the possession of a chosen people, ethnocentric, mythic literal,
conformist, and absolutistic. That’s the subtle-dream state interpreted by
mythic.
But then there is lucid dreaming, and that really does change everything.
Even if many of the specifics of a mythic-Deity religion were first delivered
by individuals who were indeed awakened to the subtle state—essentially
just like a lucid dream—for those who have had lucid dreams, reality has
shifted dramatically. First of all, note that the typical dream is a largely
unconscious process. The person dreaming has no idea they are dreaming;
everything that happens in the dream is outside of their control—they are
simply bashed and buffeted by often strange if intensely vibrant elements.

But with a lucid dream, the person knows that they are dreaming; they are
fully aware of that fact. Moreover, in the dream, if they want something, all
they have to do is think of it. Want to fly? Just think that thought, and you
are automatically flying. Want a huge buffet? Just think that, and a luscious
banquet is all yours. Sex? Give it a thought, it’s available. Want to see God?
Be careful what you wish for….
People who lucid dream are seeing a very different reality, and they
know it. It’s a reality that is true in the subtle, dream state but not true in the
gross, waking state. Thus they can become hugely visionary, because they
can see their thoughts materialize in the subtle realm but not in the waking,
gross realm. So they can start yelling and pushing at the gross realm to get
with the picture and help to bring this dreamed vision about. In other words,
they can advocate for changes in the gross realm that will finally match the
changes they have seen in the subtle. They can become prophets, seers,
vision-aries—those through whom higher realities speak. If, in their waking
state, they perform some religious practice or have intuited some sort of
Divine reality and they wish for that reality to be present while in the subtle
dream, they will eventually experience some version of it (at this mythic
stage of Growing Up, it’s usually a Deity mysticism of subtle-stage Waking
Up). But they will come down from that mountain and tell people what they
have seen, and what the people themselves can see, too, if they but believe.
And all of this, at that time, was usually interpreted through a mythic
structure.
At the mythic era in human evolution, the subject had evolved from the
red magic stage to the amber mythic stage in the Growing Up dimension,
and the most common state of Waking Up that was consciously experienced
at that time had evolved from the gross realm (of Nature mysticism) to the
subtle realm (of Deity mysticism)—in short, a mythically interpreted Deity
mysticism. Those who did not have a significant Waking Up experience
itself—that is, most people—had only their spiritual intelligence (in
Growing Up) with which they formed a mythic-literal conception of Deity
without any direct experience of such.

And keep in mind that every human being alive today will automatically
grow and evolve through the major stages of Growing Up that are available
(crimson, red, amber, orange, green, turquoise), but whether or not a person
has a direct, conscious, awakened, spiritual peak experience of a particular
state of Waking Up (gross, subtle, causal, turiya, turiyatita) is, to a large
degree, a matter of voluntary choice and practice. Individuals don’t choose
to Grow Up; all they have to do is keep living and they will generally keep
Growing. But individuals do have to choose to Wake Up. Unlike Growing
Up, Waking Up is not automatically given to humans but for the most part
is the result of voluntary and often strenuous practices and exercises. These
practices are usually ones that the Great Traditions have discovered to be
especially effective in awakening a particular higher state of being and
awareness—that is, a particular state of Waking Up (an expanded peak
access to the gross, subtle, causal, turiya, or turiyatita).
Thus, although the major states of consciousness are present from birth
—all humans wake, dream, sleep, have an implicit Witnessing awareness,
and have an ultimate Ground of Being—nonetheless, no human is
automatically given full conscious access to all of those states. Humans are
originally given a full consciousness only of the gross, waking state—which
is where their state-identity begins at birth. Apart from that, human beings
have to take up a deliberate path of spiritual awakening (and undertake
specific voluntary practices and yogic exercises and receive pointing-out
instructions) in order to move consciousness from an identity with the gross
realm to an identity with any of the higher states (subtle, causal, witnessing,
nondual)—which gives rise to a Nature mysticism, a Deity mysticism, a
Formless mysticism, an I AMness mysticism, or a Nondual Unity
mysticism—all of which are varieties of Waking Up (or Wholeness)
spirituality. And, no matter which variety of Waking Up spiritual experience
arises, it will be interpreted according to the stage of Growing Up that has
the experience (crimson-archaic to turquoise-integral). And while
everybody will automatically advance to some degree through the available
stages of Growing Up, only a relatively small number will undertake the

voluntary practices that will move them into a genuinely conscious
experience and awakening of any of the higher states of Waking Up.
We should note that this mythic-ethnocentric stage of development is, in
general, the most common stage of Growing Up found today. Robert
Kegan’s research has shown that, as he puts it, “some 3 out 5 people do not
make it beyond this stage.” In other words, some 60 percent of the world’s
population are at the mythic-ethnocentric stage (or lower). (A person is said
to be at the mythic-ethnocentric stage if the average altitude of all their
multiple intelligences—their “center of gravity”—is at amber or
amber/orange.)
This fact signals perhaps the most grievous, threatening, and deleterious
state of affairs that humanity faces today. With a majority of the world’s
population still at an ethnocentric “us versus them” altitude, the chance for
genuine human solidarity and authentic world peace and harmony is close
to zero. In our interiors, most of us are still a collection of megatribes, and
thus most of us are intensively associated with different and conflicting
identities, value systems, general ideals, and ethical drives—much like
hundreds of Hatfields and McCoys—split and fragmented and utterly
unable to reach a unified harmony and caring agreement with each other.
A CONVEYOR BELT
For the most part, religion is not helping with this issue. In fact, with many
religions still operating from this ethnocentric, mythic-literal level, they
simply exacerbate the problem. The only cure for this, as far as I can see,
would be to implement what could be called a “conveyor belt” of
spirituality, where the major religions present how their religion and its
basic tenets would look from each of the major stages of Growing Up (as I
am doing in this book with Christianity). People are going through these
stages in any event, whether they know it or not, so we might as well tell
them about it in the first place. And with a plan clearly laid out for the
religious seeker to take up a full path of Growing Up—using the levels of
their own refurbished religion as a guidebook—the world’s religions would

become a source of authentic and genuine social transformation (magic to
mythic to rational to pluralistic to integral) instead of what they mostly are
today, which is a source of arrested development at some of the lowest and
most primitive levels of growth and development (magic and mythic). Bless
them each and every one, but there it is.
If a conveyor belt were in place, and you went to see a priest or minister
or pastor about becoming a Christian, for instance, you would be given a
pamphlet that outlines the six or so major levels of Christian understanding
—for example, magic Christianity, mythic Christianity, rational
Christianity, pluralistic Christianity, and integral Christianity. Spiritual
education would proceed in the same way that public school education, and
virtually any education, already does, through a series of grades. You start
at first grade and proceed through at least sixth grade and then beyond to
higher grades. We have no problem understanding and accepting a gradeoriented approach in education—since we already use it—and I see no
reason why we would have any problem if this approach were equally
applied to spiritual education. And in this view, it does not reflect
negatively on someone to be at any of the “lower” levels of faith, because
one’s real salvation still rests with Waking Up, and a person can experience
a profound Waking Up at almost any stage of Growing Up. (Although it is
true that the better interpretations come from the higher stages of growth.)
If someone has chosen to pursue a path of Waking Up, that is their
choice—some people will wish to do so and some will not. But if they do
choose to do so, then they would take up contemplation or meditation
practices to address their own Waking Up, and they would start, in any
event, at the appropriate stage of Growing Up for them, which would be the
stage of the religion that matches their own stage of growth at that time, and
they would interpret their experiences from that level. Then when it is
appropriate (that is, when they have moved to the next stage of their own
Growing Up), they would move to the next grade of their religion (while
they also continue, if they want, to progress in their Waking Up
development).

This system would act as a conveyor belt because it would help people
see and understand their own major stages of Growing Up—which they are
moving through in any event—and thus their religion would act as a
transformation pacer for them, helping them move to higher and higher
stages of Growing Up (while they can also, if they choose, expand their
contemplative Waking Up). In contrast, most religions today often act not as
a pacer or catalyst of Growing Up but as a cause of arrested development
and fixation at some of the lowest stages of Growing Up. What they are
doing to the majority of the population on this planet is something of a
disaster, a cultural catastrophe of enormous proportions. It’s easy to
understand why the New Atheists (Richard Dawkins, Christopher Hitchens,
Sam Harris, Daniel Dennett) claim that all religion is a nightmare. They’re
half right.
To conclude, how does this amber stage understand Christianity? It
firmly believes that Jesus Christ is the one and only Son of the one and only
true God, the embodiment of absolute Truth, and the sole doorway to a true
salvation. All other religions are mistaken and incorrect and will not lead to
genuine salvation; their followers are unfortunately destined for eternal
damnation and hellfire. Only by accepting Jesus Christ as my personal
savior can I find eternal life with God. And notice that all of the (mythic)
beliefs found in such documents as the Nicene Creed and the Apostle’s
Creed have strongly mythic-literal and ethnocentric cores: a literal belief in
the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost; the Virgin Mary; Jesus who was dead for
three days and then resurrected and is the one and only Son of the one and
only Creator God, and so on. These beliefs are absolutely and literally true,
and my being an authentically saved Christian depends upon my acceptance
of those statements. God has a plan for each of us, and faith in God through
Jesus Christ assures me that I will fulfill that plan. The Bible is the literal
word of God, and all of it is historically, empirically, and literally true, and
is not open to criticism or questioning. Especially for Christian groups like
Pentecostals and Evangelicals, a real salvation means a direct spiritual
experience of “rebirth” (or being a “reborn Christian”), which sometimes
involves a direct, subtle-state, religious peak experience of direct Deity

mysticism (in a degree of intensity that includes the entire spectrum, from
communion to union to identity with Christ). Experiences of higher states—
all the way to nondual oneness—although relatively rare, are not
completely unheard of in Christianity; although if any of them occur at this
stage of Growing Up, they will tend to be interpreted mythically and
absolutistically.
Technically, today any level of Growing Up can have the spiritual
experience of subtle-state Waking Up, but for most Christian traditions, this
Waking Up experience will be interpreted officially and dogmatically from
the mythic-literal level (since this is where it originated). Part of this
interpretation is that one was given this extraordinary experience of subtle
Waking Up solely through one’s genuine acceptance of Jesus Christ as
one’s personal savior.
The spiritual intelligence of this amber stage operates with other
religious belief systems in similar ways, although, of course, with different
contents. The most common factors are absolutism, ethnocentrism, and
fundamentalism. In its absolutism, the spiritual intelligence of this level
firmly believes that it possesses the one and only true approach, and
everybody must conform, ethnocentrically, to this accepted reality. Your
belief system can come from this stage in two ways: (1) if you are passing
through it for the first time in your development, or (2) if you regress to it
from a higher stage. Most likely, you are regressing to it if you start to hold
any of your beliefs in a zealous, frenetically absolutistic fashion, because
then this amber absolutistic level of awareness is where you will feel most
comfortable. If you do regress, you will likely also become retribalized
(ethnocentric) and highly polarized, and you will start to hold your beliefs
in a fundamentalist-religious fashion, seeing heretics everywhere—as when
science becomes scientism; Marxism becomes a religion; and social justice
activists (in the culture wars) go from healthy green to broken green,
holding their beliefs so fanatically that they maintain that they don’t even
have to talk to those who disagree with them, since all those “others” are
“Nazis.” This claim has indeed become quite common on the far Left in the
culture wars. Social commentators have noted that this broken green has

become a “secular religion or fundamentalism.” It has developed its own
myths, and it has often been called the “regressive Left,” which illustrates
what I’m saying—the extreme far Left has indeed become a regressive,
fundamentalist, mythic religion, rife with absolutism and heretics.
What’s so fascinating about all the stages that I have described so far
(archaic fusion, egocentric magic, ethnocentric mythic, and any of their
substages) is that, for 99 percent of the time human beings have been on
this planet, they have been in those stages. The first higher, rational,
worldcentric stages emerged in a widespread fashion only around two
hundred to three hundred years ago. The development of these worldcentric
stages was a stunning tear in the fabric of history, and they did indeed
change everything. The expansion of the type of Wholeness that Growing
Up offers inexorably continued its increase to greater and greater levels. We
now turn to those higher, worldcentric stages. We can embrace immediately
the type of Wholeness they provide—if, indeed, we know where to look.
OceanofPDF.com

7
The Modern-Rational (or Orange)
Stage
We move now to one of the most important stages of Growing Up that has
emerged thus far. It is not the most important stage that has emerged—that
would be the Integral stage—but of all the stages that we have discussed, it
is by far the most compelling, the most holistic, and the most historically
significant. It’s the rational stage. For a listing of the terms various
researchers have used for this stage, see table 4. Note the emphasis on such
terms as rational, formal, modern, achievement, and individual.
This stage involves a continuing cognitive growth and hence the
emergence beyond the 2nd-person capacity of ethnocentric mythic (with its
“us versus them” mentality) to a 3rd-person capacity of universal rational
(which embraces not just “us” but “all of us” in a single, global humanity).
This indeed means a more universal viewpoint, or what we call a
worldcentric stance, which profoundly moves beyond the previous
ethnocentric stance. So here, for the first time, it becomes a major social
value to treat all people fairly, regardless of race, color, sex, ethnicity,
gender, or creed (which means, regardless of religious or ethnocentric
belief). And this capacity for 3rd-person, worldcentric, universal, and
rational (and not just mythic) thinking brought with it the quite sudden
emergence of all the pioneering modern sciences—modern physics, modern
astronomy, modern biology, modern chemistry, and so forth, all starting

around three to four hundred years ago. At the same time, the sense of self
shifted from an ethnocentric-conformist role to an individualistic-egoic role,
with an emphasis on universal individual rights, liberty, and freedom.
TABLE 4. Equivalents to the orange modern-rational egoic stage
Researcher/system

Growing Up stage

Integral

orange modern rational egoic

Commons and Richards

formal and systemic

Fischer

abstract set and mapping

Fowler

individual reflective

Gebser

mental rational

Graves

rational multiplistic

Kegan

formal institutional/modern

Kohlberg

prior rights

Loevinger

rational conscientious

Maslow

self-esteem

Selman

individual role

Torbert

achiever

Wade

achievement/affiliative

Historically, this is a fairly recent stage, only a few hundred years old,
starting with the Renaissance and the Enlightenment (although rationality
had several precursors in the Greek culture of Plato and Aristotle). And
because this stage, for the first time in history, believed in the universal
rights of all humans—that is, it moved from ethnocentric to worldcentric—
it became the first stage that finally outlawed slavery. During a onehundred-year period, from around 1770 to 1870, slavery was outlawed in
every rational industrial society on the face of the planet, the first time

anything like that had ever occurred. This had not happened even during the
great Axial period—roughly, the first millennium b.c.e. (the period when
virtually every major religion was first created). The societies of that period
did not ban slavery, because they still existed in a great mythic-ethnocentric
era, which accepted slavery, or at least didn’t object to it. In Athens,
vaunted home of democracy, one-third of the population were slaves. This
happened in almost every major culture, even ones that possessed a Great
Religion. Human beings have been on this planet for up to one million
years, but it was only two hundred years ago that a significant number of
them finally agreed that one human being owning another was actually a
bad thing. (If you ponder anything in history, ponder that.)
RATIONALITY AS DEMYTHOLOGIZING (OR THE JEFFERSON
BIBLE)
This orange stage is often given names that have to do with reason or
rationality, since cognition here moves from a more concrete mythic-literal
thinking to more rational, universal modes of awareness. But here rational
does not mean arid, dry, and analytically abstract. It means capable of selfreflection and standing back and taking a more universal, worldcentric, 3rdperson, global perspective. So at orange we do indeed find the first
emergence of the modern, rational, universal sciences—modern physics,
modern chemistry, modern astronomy, modern biology, and so on—not
Hindu chemistry versus Protestant chemistry, just chemistry, universal in its
reach. For the same reason, spiritual intelligence becomes much more
rational or universally inclusive, and there is a very widespread move, often
called “demythologizing,” where the mythic-literal elements of the culture’s
religion are downplayed or even fully rejected in favor of more rational,
moral, universal beliefs.
Thomas Jefferson is a perfect example. There’s an apocryphal story of
Jefferson sitting on the steps of the White House, with the Bible in one hand
and a pair of scissors in the other, furiously cutting out all the mythic and
supernatural elements of the Bible, leaving only its rational and moral

aspects. Jefferson did create a text by removing some sections from the
New Testament and cutting and arranging others, and it was published
posthumously as The Jefferson Bible: supernatural myths and magic
miracles are out, rational and moral ethics are in. Welcome to orange-stage
religion. And remember, this stage can function with or without a Waking
Up—and whether you have a Waking Up or not, if you are at this stage, you
will interpret them according to the rules and principles of this orange
worldcentric-rational stage.
At orange, one begins to question and examine one’s previously
unshakable and absolutistic beliefs; demythologizing occurs as mythicliteral elements are downplayed or even denied entirely. Jesus is not seen as
the sole biological son of the one and only true God, since, at this stage,
God appears in many different, equally valid forms around the world.
Instead Jesus is seen as a very important World Teacher—that is, a
worldcentric World Teacher—who still has many important lessons to teach
us today; he exemplifies a profound moral authenticity that should be the
primary example for our own rational behavior.
Since the basic elements of the religion have been demythologized and
are now more rational in content at this stage, Jesus Christ can start to
represent being a “God-man” not in a mythic fairy tale way but in a very
humanistic manner—namely, Jesus of Nazareth was a full-fledged human
being but one who had a profound and extraordinarily deep Waking Up
experience. He truly realized that “I and the Father are one”—except now
this is understood in a fully demythologized form. That is, he awakened to
the fact that his own deepest Self or I AMness was fully one with universal
Spirit. He realized that his own True Nature was literally God—he realized,
in short, his Supreme Identity. He was indeed a “God-man,” not by special
status or birth but by metamorphosis (transformation)—which is the Greek
word actually used, and used quite often, in the New Testament—that is, a
real Awakening, Enlightenment, Moksha, Recognition, Great Liberation.
When Jesus stated the core of his realization—which was that “before
Abraham was, I AM”—this was a genuine realization of causal

Formlessness as it connected to a veritable I AMness mysticism. It was at
this point that Jesus of Nazareth became Jesus the Christ.
Christ is not a name, it’s a title. It means “anointed,” which means “one
who discovered and expressed their divinity”;[1] it thus means Waking Up.
Christ’s I AMness was indeed awakened to his Oneness with Spirit.
Importantly, he interpreted his realization from the orange universalworldcentric stage not the amber mythic-ethnocentric stage, which is why
Jesus the Christ clearly wanted his realization to be given to all the gentiles
as well as the Jews. Not only was it a true I AMness recognition, he wanted
it taught worldcentrically not just ethnocentrically. He himself insisted that
he was most fundamentally “the son of Man,” which meant the “son of all
humans,” not just the son of one people. This was a true, universal, I
AMness awareness—“Before Abraham was, I AM”—and, in Hebrew, the
syllables for “I AM” are the same syllables that the Hebrews used for
“God” or “Spirit” (“I AM that I AM”). Thus, everybody’s True Nature is
Christ consciousness, and Jesus of Nazareth had that realization in a
particularly strong fashion, transforming him, indeed, to Jesus the Christ.
Christ had moved beyond a mythic-ethnocentric realization to a
universal-worldcentric realization beyond ordinary words. It was a causal
Formlessness as it moved into a genuine turiya or I AMness realization.
And the fact that his I AMness is one with Spirit is actually the claim that
got Christ crucified. “Why do you stone me?” he asks at one point. “Is it for
good works?” And the crowd responds, “No, it is because you, being a man,
make yourself out God.” And that is exactly what he was—a “God-man”—
and that got him crucified.
Once one has realized a universal-worldcentric truth and opened at least
the causal Formless domain, generally, one can open oneself to virtually
any of the higher Waking Up stages, particularly turiya Emptiness or IAMness mysticism but also the highest turiyatita or One Taste domain. If
one uses worldcentric rationality to move beyond a mythic domain and
open oneself to a universal causal Formless realm, this then clears
consciousness of all the Forms in awareness, thus allowing higher states to
emerge (states that transcend Form altogether, such as turiya and turiyatita).

We’ll see later that Gautama Buddha interpreted his entire realization
according to rationality itself (and the Formless causal), and because of that,
he opened himself to the Emptiness or Nirvanic realm. Like Christ, the
word Buddha is not a name but a title. What does it mean? When Gautama
Siddhartha became Enlightened (and thus went from Gautama Siddhartha to
Gautama the Buddha), he was asked if he were a god. He replied “No.”
“Then what are you?” he was asked. He replied, “Awake.”
Opening to the causal Formless does not guarantee that one will open to
turiya or turiyatita, but it will allow it. It puts a person beyond the mythicliteral ethnocentric domain, opening them at least to a rational, universal
interpretation. This certainly happened in the case of Buddha, and it very
much looks like a similar opening occurred with Jesus Christ, when he
opened to a turiya I AMness that was one with Spirit itself.
In any event, this metamorphosis makes him not the sole biological son
of the sole mythic-literal Deity but rather one of the great universal
Realizers—individuals
such
as
Gautama
Buddha,
Shankara,
Padmasambhava, Lady Tsogyal, Meister Eckhart, Bodhidharma, the Baal
Shem Tov, and Lao Tzu. In this worldcentric sense, he offered to anybody
who wished to follow him not some sort of everlasting life in a mythic
heaven but an Awakening to their own Divine consciousness, right now on
this very earth—a Waking Up to a genuine Kingdom of Heaven, their own
eternal Christ consciousness. (Since, as we saw, eternal means a moment
without time, a timeless Now, this ever-present, timeless Now is the real
Kingdom of Heaven.) There is nothing mythic about this; it’s simply an
extraordinary perception into an ever-present but rarely recognized Reality
—and it is this Reality, realized in authentic Waking Up to a true I AMness,
that the God-men and God-women throughout history have come to remind
us of. From this viewpoint, Jesus was just another human being who had a
profound Waking Up to his own turiya True Self, one so profound that it
left a wake of influence in the stream of time that still lives to this day—but
there’s nothing mythic about it.
With this view, suddenly all the mythic-literal accoutrements of
Christianity come crashing down—none of them are needed, not for this

stage, anyway. They would remain in existence, however, as part of the
religious view at the earlier magic and mythic stages of an implicit
conveyor belt. But starting at orange rational, they could be largely set aside
—or “transcended and included”—and they were indeed set aside and
transcended by the greatest of the Christian mystics.
The myths could, however, now be used in deeply symbolic and
metaphoric ways—if we are very, very, very careful.
THE NATURE OF MYTHS
Myths are often taken to be transrational or translogical, meaning that they
are believed to offer deeper or higher meanings than mere rationality can—
and myths are often highly valued for this transrational wisdom. There are
literally thousands of books on the market right now that extol the wisdom
of myth over reason.
But notice that Joseph Campbell—perhaps the premier mythologist of
the past century—maintained that any myth that was taken literally was a
“perversion” of the myth (his term). Only myths that are held in an “as if”
fashion (exactly as described by Immanuel Kant, says Campbell)—are real
and authentic. In other words, the true mythic version of the idea that, for
example, Jesus Christ was born of a virgin would actually say something
like “Christ was so pure that it was as if Christ were born of a virgin.”
Campbell maintained that the vast majority of myths around the world are
taken literally and are thus perversions.
So much for the thousands of books that extol the wisdom of myth over
reason—most of them, according to Campbell, extol perversions. But
Campbell doesn’t know the half of it. Every myth produced by the amber
mythic-literal stage is taken literally, as its name implies. This stage is by
far the largest source of myths—and they are all taken literally. Hence,
Campbell would maintain, they are all perversions.
However, Campbell (and apparently many others) failed to realize that
“as if” phrases emerge at—and can be understood only by—the formal,
operational cognition stages (that is, orange rationality). In other words, “as

if” (and “what if”) are themselves the products of rationality, as has been
demonstrated by Piaget and many other developmental psychologists. That
means, as Campbell himself maintains, that only myths held in the space of
reason can be authentic. And with that, gone is the notion that myths offer
some sort of transrational wisdom. Only myths held by reason are authentic.
What exactly does that mean for spiritual or religious symbols? The
early Christian theologians—Clement, Origen—who were often at orange
rational (or higher) stages of development, were faced with the very
embarrassing reality of so many mythic-literal images and stories in the
Bible, and, to put it bluntly, they needed a way out. The Bible was supposed
to be the word of God, but these myths are ridiculously unbelievable—so
how could they acknowledge them but also effectively get rid of them?
Very cleverly (and, I believe, quite correctly), they maintained that the
myths themselves could be read at three levels. Level 1, the lowest level,
was literal. At level 1, Moses parting the Red Sea meant, well, exactly that
—Moses really did part the Red Sea (at least in terms of this level’s
reading). Level 2 was metaphoric or symbolic—the myths were symbols of
something deeper or higher. (This is where the myths would have to be
held, à la Campbell, in a rational “as if” fashion; so from this view, it was as
if Moses parted the Red Sea, although something else deeper than that—
something symbolic—was usually meant at level 2.) Here, Moses parting
the Red Sea really means that, for instance (I’m just making this up as an
example of a level-2 interpretation), the Israelites badly needed to pull all
their tribes together and create their own country, their own nation, and the
Red Sea represented all the obstacles that they faced on the way to creating
that country and that strong identity as a people. So Moses parting the Red
Sea “really” means that he led his people through a series of very difficult
obstacles toward their own sovereign nationhood. That would be an
example of a level-2 interpretation, reading some sort of deep meaning into
the myth (which the myth itself plainly does not say or in any way display).
So Moses overcame so many impossible obstacles that it was as if he had
parted the Red Sea itself. Or, Lot’s wife did something so bad it was as if
she were turned into a pillar of salt. Or Jesus Christ himself was so pure it

was as if he were born from a biological virgin. And thus in one stroke,
there go all those ridiculously silly meanings of the literal myths, and so
you can be a good Christian without endless embarrassment. And note, that
“as-if” interpretation is not beyond rationality; that interpretation demands
rationality and rests within its “as-if” structure.
Level 3 was mystical (or transcendental). Here the myths mean realities
that are related to an actual mystical experience or Waking Up reality. For
example, the Red Sea represents a barrier or constriction in awareness—the
self-contraction of the limited ego—and that has to be passed through if
one’s deepest and truest Reality is to be found. This would be, not a
prerational but a transrational Reality, and thus rationality would again be
needed (if transcended) in level 3.
So starting with rationality itself—starting with this orange stage—
myths are open to being interpreted in symbolic (“as if”) or mystical
(transcendental) ways, and as long as that is done with full awareness, that
is perfectly fine. Thus, for example, Christ’s death and resurrection on the
cross does not mean that he actually died and then physically arose and
ascended to live in a mythic heaven forever—which is what the myth itself
plainly says—but rather that, as is required for all genuine Awakening or
Metamorphosis experiences, he had to die to his separate-self sense (“Jesus
of Nazareth”), and once he did that (“It is finished”), his awareness was
resurrected as his own I AMness, his deepest and truest Christ
consciousness (“Jesus the Christ”). The Ascension meant not moving to a
mythic, physical heaven “up there” forever (where exactly was this “up in
the sky” heaven located—around the moon somewhere, or around Mars, or
perhaps outside of the Milky Way?) but rather the Ascension of his own
awareness to its highest Christ consciousness (or formless True Self) in the
eternity of a timeless Now, a real Kingdom of Heaven. Thus, Christ’s
physical death and physical Ascension to an actual heaven could be read in
a deeply “as-if” fashion. Christ had so transcended his illusory ego that it
was as if he had physically died to it and had been resurrected and
transported to heaven as his own True Self, thus realizing his own Supreme
Identity. “Christ died for my sins” thus means that if I am truly to follow

Christ’s example, that’s what I must also do—fully die to my own ego and
thus resurrect my True Self, so that “Not I but Christ [consciousness] lives
in me.”
It’s crucially important to realize that the literal myths produced by the
amber mythic-literal stage are not “perversions” of true myths. They have,
if anything, the real nature of myth itself—they have the original and
natural form of myth, which is created by every healthy person in the world
at the amber stage of their Growing Up. Myth in its literal form is exactly
how the world looks from that mythic-literal stage of development. When it
was first written that “Moses parted the Red Sea,” the author most certainly
did not mean that metaphorically or symbolically (let alone mystically).The
author did not think, “Let’s see, it’s important that all these Israelite tribes
really get their act together and create a real nation. So we’re standing here
in front of the Red Sea, so I’ve got it—I’ll just say that Moses actually
parted this Red Sea, and that will represent us Israelites finally overcoming
all our obstacles to creating a nation.” And are we supposed to think that,
having that in mind, the author then simply wrote, “Moses parted the Red
Sea,” and that was that. That makes no sense whatsoever. (And virtually
nobody would understand what it was supposed to really mean anyway.
How on earth would anybody know that “Moses parted the Red Sea” really
meant all of those other deeper and symbolic meanings?) Almost no myths
are originally metaphoric or symbolic. They are just what they say they are
—they are literal; there is no hidden meaning. “Lot’s wife was turned into a
pillar of salt” means exactly what it says it means—she was literally turned
into a pillar of salt. Likewise “Moses parted the Red Sea” is exactly how
that event was remembered by the mythic-literal mind, as are virtually all
the myths in the Bible and other religious treatises. (There are so many
myths in the Bible because it was written almost entirely during the mythicliteral stage of humanity’s own evolution.)
It is only when a rational (or higher-stage) mind looks at one of these
literal myths and tries to figure out what the hell it could possibly mean
(because many of them, since they are all pre-rational, just don’t make
much reasonable sense at all) that it is begun to be read in various

metaphoric or deeply symbolic ways. So interpret myths however you wish;
just don’t pretend you’re reading something into them that was originally
put into them. In effect, you’re just making it all up when you try to say
what a myth “really means” (if it’s anything other than what the myth itself
plainly says it means).
Thus, myths start in a simple and literal form, meaning exactly what
they say, however silly that might sometimes seem. This is a level-1
approach, which is actually the myth’s real and original meaning. If this
meaning often looks childish, it’s because this stage of development itself is
a childish stage of humankind’s growth and evolution. Then if rationality
emerges and looks at one of these myths, it can read them in an “as if”
fashion, and thus invent and create much deeper and more sensible
meanings, which it then claims are what the myth “really means” or is its
“authentic meaning”—whereas it is just a rationally invented “as if”
meaning—which is a level-2 approach. (Notice that many of today’s Bible
scholars—from Jordan Peterson to Dennis Prager—give long and detailed
lectures devoted to a “rational reading of the Bible”—which is fine, it’s just
a level-2 invented meaning.)[2] And if a person has a Waking Up
experience, they can give any myth they want a level-3 reading and find
something deeply mystic and transcendental in it.
Most theologians have spent their entire lifetimes taking the Bible’s
level-1 myths and working hard to give them level-2 or even level-3
meanings. But now is the time to simply drop the mythic-literal approach
(except for those on the conveyor belt who are at the amber mythic stage
themselves) and move to a higher level of spiritual intelligence (orange,
green, or turquoise)—as any Religion of Tomorrow will almost certainly
do. In other words, go ahead and use the level-1 myths (since you can’t
really avoid them) but realize that their original meanings came from the
stage that originally produced them (which will usually be the magic or
mythic stage). And then, with that in mind, go ahead and give them a higher
stage-2 or stage-3 interpretation, realizing that none of those interpretations
will get at the original meaning of the myth. But that’s okay—you have
access to its literal meaning, which is its original meaning, but you can’t

help reinterpret that from a higher stage (for example, rational, pluralistic,
or integral). Just realize that those reinterpretations of the level-1 myth will
never be their original meanings, and simply keep that in mind, even as you
necessarily make use of those higher reinterpretations.
From this demythologized view (orange rational or higher), Jesus of
Nazareth was an ordinary human being, just like anybody else, and he had a
stunningly profound experience of Waking Up to his own Divine Self—his
own Supreme Identity—just like anybody else can have (not often as
profound but still perfectly possible). And as such, he discovered his own
truest and deepest Self—his own turiya Christ consciousness—at which
point he went from being Jesus of Nazareth to being Jesus the Christ,
where, as we have already seen, “Christ” is a title, not a name, and refers to
an anointment by one’s highest and truest Self (turiya), which is one with
Spirit itself (turiyatita). Indeed, Jesus had several Waking Up experiences:
he had his first Metamorphosis in the River Jordan at the hands of John the
Baptist, then the Transfiguration, then final ego-death on the cross, and then
his Ascension to Unity or Supreme Identity (essentially gross, subtle,
causal/turiya, nondual.)
This is also very much like Prince Siddhartha, who for six years sought
his own truest reality and finally realized it with Enlightenment, whereupon
he was known as the “Buddha,” which, like “Christ,” is not a name but a
title. What does the title mean? As we previously have seen, when Buddha
was asked, “Are you a God? Are you a divine Being?” Buddha replied,
“No.” “Then what are you?” he was asked. And he simply replied,
“Awake.”
Altered states such as peak experiences, flow states, plateau
experiences, spiritual experiences, and Waking Up in general are very
common and natural events—as we noted, polls consistently show around
60 percent of people have had major “unity consciousness” experiences.
Therefore, understanding the event that defined Jesus Christ as a
straightforward (if profound) Waking Up experience takes Christ (and
spirituality in general) out of the realm of the surreal, mythic-literal, onceupon-a-time fairy-tale land, and puts it smack in the middle of this presently

existing reality. There’s nothing Santa Claus about what made Jesus into the
Christ (whereas most mythic-literal religions are almost nothing but fairy
tales, no more real—for any stage higher than amber—than are Zeus,
Apollo, Aphrodite, or the tooth fairy). The reality of what the great Adepts
and Realizers like Christ and Buddha are all about will then focus not on
some sort of mythic story or fairy tale (which have already been fully
discredited by both the modern and the postmodern mind) but instead on
the reality that altered states themselves actually reveal.
Abundant research makes it very clear that, in many instances, altered
states reveal genuine realities—real realities that are dimensions of this
world, just rarely seen or felt. For example, baseball players regularly report
that when they are at bat, they can count the number of stitches on the
baseball as it speeds toward them. They are in an altered state. We don’t
doubt the reality of the baseball or that it actually has a certain number of
stitches—those are genuine realities. But very few people can count the
stitches of a baseball while it is speeding 100 miles per hour at their face.
As we’ll see later in this book, when we go through some practices that will
allow us to experience some of the highest spiritual states, counting the
stitches on the baseball is just like seeing realities in the highest spiritual
states. These realities are something that are always present, but very few
people can see them, even though they are as real as the stitches on a
baseball. There’s nothing mythic or fairy-tale about them. As the mystics
have maintained from day one, mystical realities are direct experiences
open to anyone who wants to sincerely look. This is certainly true of the 5
major states of Waking Up. The stories of the great Realizers, the great
God-men and God-women of the past and present, are not stories of magic
or mythic superheroes; they are not born gods and goddesses but are
ordinary men and women who have awakened to their own deepest and
truest Reality—exactly as Jesus the Christ and Gautama the Buddha did
over two thousand years ago, and exactly as you can do today, right here
and now.
To state what is probably very obvious, the viewpoint of Jesus Christ (as
defined primarily by a profound Waking Up realization and not by a merely

magic-mythic fairy tale) is not necessarily a view maintained by all those
who reach the orange rational stage of their spiritual intelligence. But it is a
view that becomes possible at this stage, given this stage’s postmythic
nature. In other words, when the myths are gone, one begins to look
elsewhere for an explanation of the staggering influence of these Realizers
(many of whom founded entire religions or influential branches of
religions), and the most obvious one is the profound depth of a genuine
Waking Up realization, which leaves a morphic field of major dimensions
in its wake, which often has a profound impact on those who follow it.
Accepting this notion depends primarily on the person’s Waking Up
experience, which, as we’ve seen, is unlike Growing Up in that the
recognition (and certainly the practice) of Waking Up is often purely
voluntary. People can Grow Up all the way to turquoise integral and never
have a single Waking Up experience, or even suspect its existence. If they
do have a Waking Up realization, they will almost certainly recognize this
understanding when it appears in Realizers such as Jesus Christ or Gautama
Buddha, and they will understand that they themselves can do what St. Paul
recommended and “Let this consciousness be in you which was in Christ
Jesus, that we all may be one” (be in true Unity consciousness). And if not
—if Waking Up is not known to exist or is denied—then at this rational
stage of a person’s spiritual intelligence, if they do not become
straightforwardly atheistic or agnostic, then they will often go the route of
Thomas Jefferson and see religion as a primary source of universal moral
principles and rational guidelines and totally ditch all the magic and mythic
images.
THE RATIONAL ATHEIST
Now we come to a very common form of this orange stage’s spiritual
intelligence, which is that it will often rationally decide that it is atheistic—
or, at the very least, agnostic. These decisions are still decisions made by
spiritual intelligence, because they are made only when considering what
might be an ultimate reality, an ultimate concern—what is really, really real.

This is what spiritual intelligence does; it doesn’t matter what it finally
decides—the decision could be theistic, atheistic, agnostic, materialistic,
nihilistic, or some other version of what ultimate reality is thought to be.
The New Atheists think about those issues more than anybody I know, and
in concluding that there is no spirit, they use spiritual intelligence more than
anybody else on the planet. They often write entire books about it (for
example, The God Delusion, God Is Not Great, Letter to a Christian
Nation, Waking Up).
I’m not going to say a great deal about their viewpoint, except that it’s
about as simplistic an orange-versus-amber argument as can be imagined.
All orange (science) is good, and all amber (religion) is bad—and this is
indeed about as nonintegral a stance as is possible. It doesn’t even
acknowledge developmental realities (for example, red to amber to orange
—or magic to mythic to rational), so it doesn’t have a decent explanation of
where mythic-religion or rational science comes from in the first place.
Therefore it claims that everybody who just happens, out of the blue, to end
up using rationality is right on the mark, and everybody who engages in an
amber religion—some 60–70 percent of the world’s population—happens
to be a congenital idiot.
In any case, starting with this orange rational stage, spiritual intelligence
can begin an extensive and aggressive questioning of, and often an attack
on, all religion, which it sees as nothing but mythic-literal childishness.
(But if rationality began attacking a narrowly conceived religion, it could
also begin rationally embracing a more expanded religion.) As a result,
rational science versus mythic religion became the premier cultural battle of
modernity, no matter how idiotic its central assumptions are. This orange
stage is the first stage that can claim (and often does claim) that “God is
dead.” That claim—made famous first by Nietzsche—was loudly
pronounced across Europe during the Enlightenment as this orange stage
continued to emerge—and this meant that the mythic-God was dead—and
that it certainly was.

THE CAUSAL FORMLESS STATE
The mythic-God was dead, and it was indeed dead for orange and all higher
Growing Up levels but still lives on, vividly, at lower magic and mythic
levels. Since everybody is born at square one—that is, at crimson archaic—
and then develops through magic and then mythic on the way to orange
rational and higher, most people, even atheists, go through a magic-mythic
religious period, even if it’s just believing in Santa Claus and the tooth fairy.
But during the orange rational era, we see in some people, in the Waking
Up dimension, an advance from a subtle-state Deity mysticism to a causalstate Formless mysticism. And whereas Deity mysticism is often interpreted
by mythic, Formless mysticism is often interpreted by reason.
But here there is usually some confusion about exactly what the causal
state means, because most Traditions themselves present several different
meanings, many of which seem to be contradictory. For those who are
familiar with world religions, the causal is a bit of a nightmare, and I’m
going to try and shed a little light on it. (What follows is a bit of a technical
sidebar. If you’re not interested, feel free to breeze through it, and we’ll
pick up the story with a look at Buddhism as a “rational” religion with the
goal of Waking Up.)
The causal indicates the very first of the manifest dimensions of
existence. That is, as Spirit creates and manifests this universe moment to
moment—or as the entire manifest universe emerges from the Ground of
All Being, moment to moment—the very first forms that are created or
emerge are said to be the “causal Forms”—the Greeks called them
“archetypes” (primordial forms). Some Traditions (such as Vedanta) call
this state “causal” because it is the cause of all the lesser forms and
dimensions of existence; other Traditions (such as Tibetan Buddhism) call it
the “very subtle” (beyond the “subtle”) because it is the subtlest of all
manifest dimensions. These highest and most subtle Forms, upon which all
lesser forms depend, are found in such notions as Plato’s ideal Forms,
Whitehead’s eternal objects (things you have to have in order to have a
manifest universe at all, such as colors), Yogachara Buddhism’s vasanas

(collective memory Forms), the eternal Forms in the akashic record, and so
on.
Several Traditions maintain that you can directly experience the
archetypes, and the result is a type of archetypal, spiritual, mystical
experience. This was certainly true for the Platonic Forms, the collective
vasanas, and the Forms in the akashic record; even Jung said that
“mysticism is the experience of archetypes.”[3] When this archetypal, causal
state is indicated, I usually call it “archetypal” and its direct experience
“archetypal mysticism” (as with all spiritual experience, it will be
interpreted according to the Growing Up stage the person is at, and at
orange, that’s the universal-rational, so these Forms are almost always
claimed to be universal).
Most Traditions divide the causal state into two major dimensions: (1)
the archetypes themselves, and, at the highest point of the causal, (2) a pure,
Formless emptiness, which is said to be seen in states such as deep
dreamless sleep and formless states of meditation. For this reason, the exact
definition of the causal can become confusing—it’s either the highest and
most subtle Forms in all of existence (archetypes), or it’s a pure, infinite,
formless, unmanifest realm (Formless). Most Traditions maintain it contains
both, so we have to be very careful when we talk about the causal, and if
one of those meanings is specifically intended, I’ll definitely say so.
There’s one other slight confusion that is common: as the causal shades
into the pure, Formless, unmanifest realm, it is often combined with the
turiya state itself. Turiya, recall, is the 4th state of consciousness (which is
the next state beyond the causal, which itself is the 3rd state, because it is
after the gross and the subtle). It is the pure, empty, formless Witness; pure,
content-free Awareness; Consciousness without an object; it’s also known
as the True Self, I AMness, Absolute Subjectivity, one’s Original Face, and
so on. In itself, turiya is radically unqualifiable and free of all
characteristics whatsoever (including that one).[4] In essence, the Witness is
radically free of all manifestation: “I have sensations, but I am not those
sensations. I have feelings, but I am not those feelings. I have thoughts, but
I am not those thoughts. I am the pure Seer, not anything that can be seen;

the true Witness, not anything witnessed; the pure Knower, not anything
known.” And thus turiya is sometimes referred to as a pure Emptiness or
pure Formlessness (with capital letters), but it’s also the cognizing or
knowing aspect of pure Awareness—a pure, Empty, unqualifiable Witness.
(This turiya state is one of the main states we will be exploring and
experiencing later on.)
When turiya is combined with the causal, which is often done, what is
always meant is the pure, Formless aspect of both states, so this drives a
pure, Formless mysticism or a radical Emptiness mysticism (while the pure
knowing aspect of turiya drives a Consciousness-only, or True-Self, or IAMness mysticism).
The “causal” state can thus mean either or both of those two central
meanings—the highest of all Forms (archetypes) or a pure Formlessness
beyond all forms (as when the causal is said to be present in deep dreamless
sleep—which is a purely Formless state). When evolution began to push
into the causal state, making it available to awareness, we tend to find both
of those aspects come to the fore. On the one hand, we find, around the
world, the discovery of archetypes—whether Plato’s Forms, the akashic
record of the East, the vasanas of the Lankavatara Sutra, or Pythagorean
geometries (these seem to be the primordial dimensions that modern-day
string theory finds it necessary to postulate, strings being the primordial
dimensions that generate all other dimensions). And following close on that
discovery was the direct realization not only of those highest Forms but also
of the Formless (causal/turiya): the truly unmanifest, infinite, formless
realm of pure cessation, a One beyond the Many, an Emptiness beyond all
Form, and, most notably, a nirvana beyond all samsara. This pure turiya
state is literally the state of nirvana or nirodh (pure cessation), and to
discover nirvana is to be totally free of all samsara and hence to discover a
pure, infinite Freedom. This Freedom is not a theoretical postulate but a
direct experience of a pure and unqualifiable I AMness. Because this pure,
formless Emptiness clears all forms from consciousness, it also opens
consciousness to virtually all of the higher states of Waking Up (from turiya
itself to turiyatita).

To conclude this section, note that during the period when, in the
Growing Up line, evolution moved from amber mythic to orange rational,
in the Waking Up line evolution often pressed into the causal state—where
“causal” has a range of meanings: It could be marked by a type of
Archetypal mysticism (Platonic and Pythagorean being the most typical).
Or it could be marked by a strong sense of the pure Emptiness or pure
unmanifest Formlessness of the high causal (deep dreamless sleep). When
that happened, then commonly the turiya state itself (the Witness or
formless I AMness) was also being engaged (a Formless nirvana free of all
Forms of samara, as in original Buddhism).
ORIGINAL BUDDHISM
The infinite, empty Ground of Being (causal/turiya) is a state that—like
virtually all states—can be experienced and interpreted from any major
stage of Growing Up (provided that stage had already emerged in
evolution). One of the spiritual approaches that prominently uses the orange
rational stage is that of Gautama Buddha. The aim of Buddha’s original
system was to awaken from the realm of samsara (the entire manifest
universe of form) and discover instead a purely formless, empty, unmanifest
state known as “nirvana” (which itself was a radically empty turiya “noego” state). This meant a complete cessation or extinction of all manifest
forms in awareness, so that one becomes completely free of the suffering,
sin, illusion, and fallenness of the entire manifest world (samsara). This was
a pure Waking Up experience of a radical turiya state, but what made
Buddha’s approach so significant is that he explained it in a completely
rational fashion. Buddha does not refer to gods or goddesses or nature
spirits or anything like that—nothing magic or mythic at all. Rather, he
gives very clear, straightforward explanations that are completely rational.
He explains that his aim is the realization of a state of pure extinction or
cessation (nirvana or nirodh), which especially is an extinction of all
suffering (samsara). But the Awakened or Enlightened state cannot itself be
captured by rationality or by any thought process whatsoever. Rather,

Buddha explains, to attain that Waking Up experience, one must instead
take up meditation and work to awaken a purely empty state of complete
cessation and extinction—a state Buddha specifically called “nirvana” (and
is technically known as “nirodh,” or the total cessation of all mental forms).
All of this is delivered in an utterly rational fashion, including the
instructions for the practices of meditation that alone can lead one to a
transrational Enlightenment. Buddha is interpreting this causal
Formless/turiya state of Waking Up from a purely orange rational stage of
Growing Up.
Nirvana is a Sanskrit word, which, like many Sanskrit words used in
connection with spirituality, has the prefix nir, which means “without,”
“not,” or “none.” Nirvana is a state “without grasping or desire.” Some
other terms with nir as a prefix became common, including nirvikalpa
(without thought forms), nirguna (without qualities, totally unqualifiable),
and nirodh (pure extinction or total cessation), since they all pointed to
variations on this completely Empty, Formless, Unqualifiable Reality that
had just been evolutionarily accessed for the first time, and to a radical
Freedom from all of the torments, tortures, sin, suffering, and illusions that
the entire manifest universe had been charged with. This is a very, very real
state of turiya Waking Up—as is its radical Freedom—and it was
experienced at this time in history because evolution itself had moved
beyond mythic forms into the beginning orange rational realms, which
because of their own transcendental capacity to move beyond myths, also
opened up the transcendental possibility of a turiya Awakening in the
process of Waking Up.
Original Buddhism is one of the very few world religions that originated
at the orange rational level of Growing Up (although it aimed for the pure
empty turiya state of Waking Up). Scholars have perennially scratched their
heads about why Buddhism seems so different from the other major
religions—and whether it even should be included as a religion at all.
Different it indeed is. Its difference is not found in its ultimate aim—the
pure Emptiness of Waking Up—because that goal could be found in many
other religions that had accessed the orange rational level (including the

nothingness of the Cloud of Unknowing, Judaism’s Ayin, and Gnosticism’s
formless Godhead beyond God). Rather, its difference from other world
religions is that virtually all the other world religions have significant
magic-mythic backgrounds as their interpretive base, while Buddhism has
almost none. This lack of magic-mythic elements led many scholars—who
identified religion primarily with these elements—to claim that Buddhism
wasn’t really a religion at all—it was more like a pure psychology. In my
view, although the pure cessation of infinite Emptiness that was the goal of
Buddhist practice was not particularly new or different from that of many
other religions, its interpretive grid, or the level of Growing Up from which
it interpreted its Waking Up, was indeed quite different. It was not magic or
mythic but orange rational—and this was definitely quite new and, at the
time, profoundly different from virtually any other major religion.[5]
As for the aim or goal of Buddhism, we see other examples, at this time,
of a turiya state described as pure Oneness, infinite Emptiness, Godhead
beyond God, or a nirvana beyond all samsara. We see it also in
Parmenides’s One; Samkhya’s Purusha (Pure Self) versus Prakriti (a
manifest Many); and in the paradoxes of Zeno and similar thought
experiments, which explicitly used a precocious and newly emergent orange
reason to show that the entire manifest world itself was inherently
contradictory, fallen, even unreal. The Samkhya’s dualistic doctrine of a
pure Purusha versus a manifest Prakriti turned out to be the foundational
spiritual approach of almost all the great religions of India (the mother ship
of spiritual and religious traditions). It separated reality into a real
component (Purusha, the Witness, I AMness, the True Self, Consciousness
without an object, or pure empty Awareness) and a totally manifest
component (Prakriti, the entire manifest material world), with the goal of
gaining total Liberation, the discovery of the radical Freedom of empty
Consciousness versus the inherent suffering of identifying with an
objective, material, manifest world (that world—after all, was completely
fallen, illusory, and suffering laden). And that indeed became the enduring
goal of numerous subsequent Indian religious systems, although later
variations—which we will explore—moved from dualistic versions, such as

the original Samkhya, to nondual versions, such as Vedanta and Vajrayana,
and they did so precisely when the access to higher states of consciousness
evolved from a pure empty Consciousness of turiya—which is inherently
dualistic (a world split into a nirvana versus samsara)—to the ultimate
Unity Awareness of turiyatita—which is profoundly nondual (a nirvana
united with samsara).
At this point in our narrative, we are talking about the dualistic versions
—causal/turiya—which are versions that separated the infinite Formless
realm from the finite world of Form—nirvana from samsara—and
counseled a pure identity with the Formless One and a complete rejection of
the manifest Many.
THE DEATH OF THE MYTHIC GOD
When the death of the mythic God occurred in the West, it was a
horrendously painful and wrenching transition. People really thought that,
without their traditional God, anything would be allowed, there would be no
morals left anywhere, sin would run rampant, the world would collapse. But
the world did not collapse, and in one of the most staggeringly huge
transformations in all of humanity’s evolution, a mythic God was replaced
by rational science as the most trusted source of true knowledge. The
mythic God was pronounced dead.
With this transition, in your own case, you are still allowed to believe
that your religion (if you have one) is the very best religion in the world for
you—but it’s no longer automatically the best for everybody else.
Everybody interprets their religion based primarily not on what the
religion itself says but on what Growing Up stage they are at. With respect
to Christianity, especially since the Enlightenment, there have been sincere,
faithful, intelligent people interpreting Christianity in essentially rational
(and demythologized) terms—starting with Deism, the first major, mostly
rational approach to Christianity that reached a large following (many of the
most influential founders of the United States were Deists). This has
continued to this day. One of the better-known examples of such a rational

Christian is, as I’ve pointed out, Bishop Shelby Spong. He states flat-out
that he doesn’t believe any of the major myths or miracles of Christianity
(including truly central myths like the virgin birth, the one and only true
biological son of God, and the physical resurrection), and further, he says,
he doesn’t know any modern theologians who do. (Well, if he doesn’t, I do
—lots of them. But the point is taken.) As we’ve already seen, the title of
his recent book Unbelievable says it all: every one of the central myths in
Christianity is utterly unbelievable in today’s world. But he also clearly
says that despite his rejection of these myths, he still considers himself a
true, fully faithful, and genuinely authentic Christian—and I couldn’t agree
more!
Thus, more rational forms of spirituality do become very common at
this orange structure-stage (as well as at the next major worldcentric stage,
the green pluralistic stage). As one’s stage of Growing Up moves beyond
the mythic, then all higher stages will be postmythic or rationally accepting.
As spiritual intelligence begins moving away from more traditional forms
of mythic religion, often rational sciences like systems theory start to be
used to explain spirit as a great Web of Life; or quantum mechanics is used
to offer proof of the interconnectedness of all life (an admittedly pantheistic
view).[6] One may or may not have a direct Waking Up experience at these
orange or green stages; but if one does, it will be interpreted according to
the terms of that stage itself. If orange, the spiritual intelligence of this stage
is usually rational, science compatible, universal, worldcentric, and
evidence based, often dipping into leading-edge sciences like systems
theory, quantum mechanics, or complexity theory, with Spirit itself
commonly interpreted as the total interwovenness of the entire manifest
universe (or a pantheistic Great Web of Life).
If one’s spiritual system at this rational stage is based on an authentic
mysticism (that is, if it’s based on practices that help a person to directly
experience Waking Up to a higher state of consciousness—such as causal or
turiya), then one can interpret and explain that ultimate Spirit in rational
terms, much like Gautama Buddha did. But if one’s spiritual system at this
orange rational stage does not involve a Waking Up or a change of state of

consciousness, then one will have only the spiritual intelligence itself (of
Growing Up) to create a spiritual awareness, and therefore often the
“scientific” explanations and theories—using everything from quantum
mechanics to systems theory—will themselves start to take on an aura of
theology. That is, simply knowing these scientific descriptions of reality
will be mistaken for a direct Waking Up experience of an ultimate Reality.
These systems of knowledge by description will be thoroughly confused
with a genuine knowledge by acquaintance—the fingers pointing to the
moon will be confused with the moon itself.
We want to remember, as we start to “get rational” about Spirit, that
holding any of these opinions about a New Paradigm in science is
obviously not the same as a direct Waking Up experience itself, and this
really should be remembered or we will never even try to Wake Up. If you
spend your time reviewing and studying a New Paradigm in science, then
you are exercising your spiritual intelligence in Growing Up. That is totally
fine! But such Growing Up efforts do not contribute in any direct way to
your own Waking Up. Most people confuse Waking Up and Growing Up,
and so they imagine that the time they put into thinking about some new
science paradigm is advancing their Waking Up. But it isn’t—in fact, it
often hurts it. When Waking Up and Growing Up are confused, then you
will think that the work you are doing in Growing Up is the same as
Waking Up, and thus you won’t really do any Waking Up work at all, and
thus…, well…, you simply won’t Wake Up. So particularly beginning at
orange, where rationality starts offering a huge number of alternatives in the
spiritual market, you want to keep that warning in mind and remember both
the important differences between Waking Up and Growing Up and the
extraordinary importance of fully including and integrating both.
EVOLUTION—THE “WHAT” AND THE “WHY”
At this orange rational stage, the notion of evolution itself often becomes
reinterpreted by spiritual intelligence as something like “Spirit-in-action.”
The entirety of conventional Darwinian evolution is not necessarily

embraced at this stage, but, at the very least, it is no longer thought that
evolution itself is incompatible with a legitimate spirituality. But this is
almost always done with a very specific understanding of evolution. To wit:
there are at least two quite different aspects of modern evolutionary theory
—there is the chronological what of evolution, and there is the theoretical
why of evolution. The “what” is almost always accepted by a smart orange
rationality, the “why” almost never.
The chronological “what” is a simple description of the many stages of
evolution as it actually unfolded and as it continuously produced new and
emergent holons, with an overall trend toward more and more complex,
unified, and conscious entities—from quarks to atoms to molecules to cells
to organisms, and with organisms, a whole Tree of Life of ever-greater and
more complex wholes, from plants to fish to amphibians to reptiles to
mammals to primates to humans—and with humans, a continuing drive of
ever-greater wholeness, from egocentric to ethnocentric to worldcentric to
integral. That is the “what” of evolution—the empirical record of what
actually occurred—and it is generally accepted by the spiritual intelligence
of this stage (and the core of this “what” is likewise accepted by virtually
all schools of modern evolutionary theory).
As for the “why” of evolution, this is where it gets tricky, and even
orthodox scientists have serious arguments and disagreements about this.
There seem to be several factors involved. Whitehead called the
unmistakable drive of evolution in a particular and inherent direction “the
creative advance into novelty,”[7] which he saw as an “ultimate” that is
required to get any universe in operation. Erich Jantsch called it “selforganization through self-transcendence”; Ilya Prigogine’s Nobel-prizewinning work called it “order out of chaos”; Francisco Varela called it
“autopoiesis” and “enactment”; some philosophers often call it simply
“Eros”; and probably the most-often used name at this time in science itself
is simply “self-organization.” The inherent drive of the universe to selforganize has set evolution in motion and then pushed it from within to evergreater and ever more unified wholes (or holons), with the result of 14
billion years of this self-organization through self-transcendence being

nothing less than this unbelievably beautiful world that we find ourselves
in. This is an inherent drive—an actual force—present in the universe itself.
It’s as real a force as gravity, electromagnetism, and the strong and weak
nuclear forces.
This Eros or self-organization also pushes our own growth and
development and opens us to higher and higher stages of evolutionary
unfolding. The force that produced galaxies from the Big Bang, gorillas
from dirt, and global worldcentric concern from egocentric narcissism is the
same force that will drive us to higher and higher stages of our own growth,
development, and evolution. And if you see evolution as being driven by
“Spirit-in-action”—which is one possible view that emerges at this orange
stage—then the very drive of this Eros or self-organizing activity can be
seen as the creative drive of Spirit itself, creating something from nothing in
every moment of existence, as the creative Ground of Being of everything
that is.
Regarding the “what” aspect of evolutionary theory, which traces the
many temporal stages of this evolutionary unfolding—very few rational
thinkers doubt that part of the theory. When scientists say that evolution is
not doubtable, that’s the part of evolution that they mean—and they’re
right. Atoms really did come before molecules, which really did come
before cells, and fish really did come before amphibians, which really did
come before mammals, and so on. This “creative advance into novelty” is
simply unavoidable and undeniable if you really look at the actual history
of the Kosmos.
But why this happens is a different story, and fewer and fewer
evolutionary biologists themselves agree about this anymore. The neoDarwinian explanation is that it is all caused by chance mutations triggering
chance variations, and then those chance variations that just happen to be
favorable to survival and sexual reproduction are preferentially selected—
so-called natural selection. But few scientists today believe that anymore,
not as a complete theory. Thus, leading-edge evolutionary theorists such as
David Sloan Wilson speak of things like psychological and cultural
evolution, which don’t even involve sexual reproduction. It is extremely

unlikely that mere chance variation could give rise to the massive diversity
and constantly increasing complexity and unification of form that we see
unrelentingly operating in evolution. (As only one example, the probability
of correctly producing a single protein chain containing 150 amino acids in
the correct order—by chance—versus incorrectly doing this is 1/1077; that
is, several times greater than the total number of organisms on the planet.)
In other words, there has to be, built into the universe itself, a drive to
greater order, wholeness, and self-organization—exactly what Whitehead
called the “creative advance into novelty,” and without some version of that
creative novelty, the universe would not have gone one nanosecond beyond
the Big Bang.
In short, within the universe itself, there has to be some sort of inherent
push to greater order, some sort of probability-increasing machine, as it
were. At the very least, we need something like Prigogine’s intrinsic drive
to produce “order out of chaos” (for example, even dead matter itself, when
pushed far from equilibrium, escapes that tension by jumping to a higher
level with more order, as when water chaotically splashing down the drain
suddenly jumps into a perfectly formed whirlpool). This drive to create
“order out of chaos,” according to Prigogine’s Nobel Prize-winning work, is
an inherent drive of the material universe itself, which started with the Big
Bang. Stuart Kauffman, of the famed Santa Fe Institute, says that the
complexity in the universe is “some sort of mixture of self-organization and
natural selection”—with self-organization being that inherent drive to
greater novelty, complexity, and order.
You can find variations of this view in any number of really bright
theorists. Bruce Damer is a highly respected pioneer in abiogenesis,
scientific research into the very origins of life. (I’ve spent a fair amount of
time with him, and he’s as close as anybody I know to this breakthrough.)
And right at the beginning of his explanatory scheme is something without
which the entire system won’t move forward at all: a probability-increasing
machine (which is where I got that phrase). In other words, in order for life
itself to originate, there has to be something that drives the creative
emergence of higher-ordered entities and actively works against

randomness (and against the second law of thermodynamics). The universe
is not winding down; evolution occurs because there is a drive for the
universe to wind up—that is, it’s a probability-increasing machine.
Or take Charles Peirce—widely agreed to be one of the greatest
philosophical geniuses of the United States.[8] Peirce maintained that
evolution was driven by four forces: the first two were standard chance and
necessity—which in standard Darwinism are what drive mutation and
natural selection (which together are usually what is called “evolution,”
which is the third force). But Peirce maintained that those three forces
couldn’t give you anything even vaguely resembling evolution. For that, he
said, you need a fourth force beyond chance, necessity, and evolution—a
force Peirce called “creative evolution” or “Evolutionary Love” (his term
and his caps; Peirce added, quoting John, “God is Love”). In other words,
you need Eros, the inherent drive of the Kosmos to create order out of chaos
and consciousness out of rocks. (Given that evolution is ultimately driven
by Eros or Evolutionary Love—and given that God is Love—this is exactly
why anybody as brilliant as Peirce could easily see evolution as being
Spirit-in-action.)
So that inherent drive to greater complexity, order, and wholeness can
indeed be legitimately pictured either as just an inherent drive of the
universe or as the creative drive of Spirit itself, a creative drive or Spirit-inaction that brings something out of nothing moment to moment to moment.
Spiritual intelligence, grappling with these issues, can see this inherent
drive that creates order out of chaos as being an intrinsic feature of the
universe itself or as a primary form of Spirit’s own creativity. One of these
two versions—secular or spiritual (both of which embrace selforganization)—is the most common explanation of the why of evolution,
starting at orange. But gone is the insanity of there being nothing but
chance mutation and natural selection driving evolution—a notion so utterly
idiotic that it reminds one of Arthur Lovejoy’s comment that “there is no
human stupidity that has not found its champion.”
But this view of inherent order cannot legitimately believe that a mythic
Jehovah (or any other mythic god or goddess) is necessary in order to

provide the “why” of evolution. That conclusion, which is common with
Intelligent Design theories, is not a rational conclusion. It is the result of the
working of spiritual intelligence, for sure, but one that is still operating in
many ways at the previous, mythic level. Intelligent Design theories
aggressively attack the major inadequacies of the natural-selection
explanation of the “why” of evolution, and their often-correct criticisms
make them interesting theories.
But they then sneak their own mythic explanation of the “why” into the
equation (usually in the form of the God of the Bible), and not only is that
completely unwarranted but it doesn’t work anyway. The real problem with
Intelligent Design is the “intelligent” part. Evolution, as Michael Murphy
puts it, meanders more than it progresses. There are simply too many
aspects of evolution that although surely driven by an inherent drive to
create higher order, nonetheless are often fairly happenstance; not every
itty-bitty item of evolution is clearly and carefully intelligently designed
(some things still happen by chance, for one thing). Eros, or selforganization, is a general push, a broad tendency, a rough directive, a
generalized morphogenetic field not a precise and detailed blueprint. The
only way a truly Intelligent Designer actually created something as loopy as
a duckbilled platypus is if it got drunk that week.
So at this stage, the “why” of evolution is often seen as the way that
Spirit itself actually creates this world, the way that it spontaneously
introduces new elements, novel emergents, increases in consciousness, the
whole creative drive of Spirit-in-action—a “creative advance into novelty.”
In reference to Christianity, scientifically oriented evolution often replaces
mythically oriented Genesis at this stage. The work of Michael Dowd is a
good example of the many Christians who have started taking this orange
(or higher) approach and see evolution itself as the primary evidence and
product of Spirit’s own creativity—the glorious evidence of a truly
abundant creative drive. And further, from this point of view, Jesus Christ
himself becomes a beacon of humanity’s own future evolution.
OceanofPDF.com

8
The Postmodern-Pluralistic (or
Green) Stage
The green postmodern stage—also known as the pluralistic or relativistic
stage—is a good example of the ways in which evolution has continued to
unfold in our world. In 1959, only 3 percent of the American population
were at a green stage of development; today, around 23 percent are.
Evolution continues!!! This brought many new changes to the United States
—perhaps the most important is the postmodern, which included, among
many other things, a nasty series of culture wars, still quite rampant. For a
listing of the terms various researchers have used for this stage, see table 5.
Note the emphasis on such terms as pluralistic, relativistic, postmodern,
multicultural, and egalitarian.
This green stage adds a 4th-person perspective to the previous stage’s
3rd-person perspective, so there is a very strong emphasis on multiple
perspectives, all of which are seen as having equal importance (a view
known as “egalitarianism”); hence this stage’s embrace of equity, diversity,
and multiculturalism. Because of its 4th-person metasystemic capacity to
reflect on the systems created by the previous 3rd-person rational stage, it is
often highly critical of those systems, claiming that they are created by
“tyrannical power” and need to be “deconstructed,” especially if they are
seen as creating inequalities between groups that should be treated equally.

TABLE 5. Equivalents to the green pluralistic-postmodern stage
Researcher/system

Growing Up stage

Integral

green pluralistic-postmodern (multicultural
egalitarian)

Commons and
Richards

metasystemic

Fischer

systems

Fowler

conjunctive

Gebser

pluralistic

Graves

relativistic

Kegan

postformal/postmodern

Kohlberg

social contract

Loevinger

individualistic

Maslow

beginning self-actualization

Selman

symbolic interaction

Torbert

existential

Wade

affiliative

Thus, there is a strong emphasis on the complete equality of all humans
and a tendency of spiritual intelligence at this level to embrace as an
ultimate concern a notion of social justice. It fights anything seen as
discrimination, marginalization, or oppression; and it is extremely sensitive
to what happens to the environment—some version of an ecological Gaia as
ultimate Spirit (or as part of its ultimate concern) is especially prevalent. In
other words, both engaging in social justice and ecological activism are
seen as aspects of the same ultimate concern. The Web of Life for orange
modern rational is often a scientific fact; for green postmodern pluralistic, it
is a moral imperative.

At green, if one is a Christian, Christ is seen as one among many
authentic, multicultural World Teachers. Other religions are not just to be
tolerated (as they are with orange) but are also possible supplements to be
incorporated into one’s own practice (for example, taking up the Buddhist
practice of mindfulness); all of this is acceptable to a pluralistic
Christianity.
FREEDOM VERSUS EQUALITY
Both orange and green are worldcentric, so they both desire to treat all
people fairly, regardless of race, color, sex, gender, ethnicity, or creed. But
although both of them believe in worldcentric fairness, what each of them
means by fairness is quite different.
Fairness, for freedom-oriented orange, is that all people should be given
equal opportunity. This means, for example, in the Olympic 100-meter
dash, absolutely everybody who is qualified gets to run in the race—no
member of any group (race, color, ethnicity, creed) is excluded just because
they belong to that group. Then whoever finishes first gets a gold medal,
second silver, and third bronze. It is very much merit based, and “may the
best person win”—as long as everybody gets a fair shot and none are
excluded.
But for egalitarian green, fairness means equal outcome, sometimes
referred to as “equity.” Green doesn’t just want everybody to start the race
at the same time, it wants everybody to finish the race at the same time. If
any group consistently finishes behind any other group, that is because the
winners—or at least some other malevolent powers—are discriminating
against them, holding them back, oppressing them. They are not losers but
victims. The orange distinction of winners and losers is replaced by the
green distinction of oppressors and victims. (Clearly, both distinctions exist
in the real world. The trick, Integral maintains, is how to integrate them,
since neither orange nor green wants to do this.)
Both orange and green, being worldcentric, tend to say that they are in
favor of both freedom and equality for everybody. But there are some

significant differences in how they use those terms, which are related to the
differences between equal opportunity (orange’s freedom) and equal
outcome (green’s equity). For example, there is equal opportunity when
everybody who is qualified to perform a particular job is able to apply for it
and will be considered solely on their merits. Nobody is rejected just
because they are gay, black, female, or a member of some minority. That is
embracing freedom—orange wants to make sure everybody who is
qualified has the freedom to apply. If everybody who applies has equal
opportunity, and the best person for the job is chosen on their merits, then
orange is not so concerned with which group or minority the person hired
belongs to, even if it appears that people from some groups are usually not
being hired. For example, if the belief is “May the best man win,” and if the
word man means “person,” but a lot more males get the job than females,
then as long as the hiring decisions are genuinely merit based, that’s fine
with orange. Freedom is freedom.
But that is radically not fine with green. Equality is equality, and that
orange result might be freedom but it is not equality or equity. (If males and
females have the equal opportunity to apply for the job, but twice as many
males actually end up being hired, then they all have an equal amount of
freedom, but twice as many males as females have equality.) In other
words, there is a big difference between freedom and equality. And if green
has to step on a few freedoms to get more equality, fine with green. If we
need to do something like introduce quotas that limit the freedom of males
to apply and we deliberately select more females, that’s okay with green.
Freedom and equality do not get along very well. In fact, they’re
opposites. It was Thorstein Veblen who first pointed out that, paraphrasing,
“Human beings are born with many differences. Therefore, you can have
either freedom or equality, but you can’t have both.”
For example, in the early 1960s, around 61 percent of all college
degrees were being given to males, and only 39 percent to females. This
was not because females were being discriminated against when they
applied to college. By that time, it was, in fact, illegal to discriminate
against women in this fashion—there were laws against denying women

equal opportunity in almost every area, and if you did, you could be fined
or sent to jail. No, this was a lack of equal outcome—it was an inequality in
the number of female versus male graduates. Women did not lack freedom;
they lacked equality. Although men and women were equally free to apply
to college, they were not graduating in anywhere near equal numbers.
Here we have to be extremely careful. Green will tend to look at any
deviations from equal outcome as being due solely to discrimination and
oppression. Healthy green will not tend to do this as much, but a
dysfunctional green—a “broken green”—will see any and all deviations
from equal outcome as being due solely to discrimination or oppression. If
the ratio of men to women in a society is 1:1, then any profession should
have 50 percent men and 50 percent women, and, as broken green sees it,
any deviation from that number is due solely to oppression (which creates
nothing but victims).
But this is categorically false. As only one example, in Scandinavian
countries—which are universally acknowledged to be the most gender
egalitarian countries in the world—the ratio of men to women in
engineering is nowhere close to 1:1, as one would expect if men and
women were indeed treated equally. Rather the ratio of male to female
engineers is a staggering 20:1. Since this is occurring in gender-egalitarian
countries, what is causing it? The same thing is true if we choose
professions that are stereotypically female oriented, such as nursing, where
the ratio of women to men is an equally startling 19:1. So again, what on
earth is causing this?
These huge differences are not due to a difference in intellectual
capacity, they’re due to a difference in interests. Women can do just as well
as men in engineering (and many do), it’s just that most women are not that
interested in engineering (and so they don’t do it). Men are more interested
in engineering, and thus more of them enter the field. Moreover, this
difference in interests has been tested in numerous cultures all over the
world, and the more egalitarian the culture is, the greater those differences
become—which tends to indicate that the more equally men and women are
treated, the more their own natural interests are allowed to come to the fore.

The London Times has reported on at least three research projects testing
that theme (namely, the more egalitarian the culture, the greater the
differences in interests), and it calls their unanimous conclusion “the
sturdiest finding of modern sociological science.”
Human beings are indeed born and develop with a vast number of
differences—with different talents, gifts, handicaps, skills, preferences,
desires, goals, and interests. Whenever human beings engage in areas that
involve any of those items, it is ridiculous to suppose that they will all cross
the finish line at the same time, and green’s unyielding demand that
everybody be given absolute “equality” is simply unworkable. The very real
—and often extremely important—differences in human beings (including
their different interests) need to be taken into account whenever we see
anything other than a strict equal outcome (as we see with female engineers
and male nurses in Scandinavia). This is not because of a difference in
capacity but a difference in interest (it’s not that men cannot be as good at
nursing as women, it’s that they don’t have anywhere near the same amount
of interest in it).
But this doesn’t mean that achieving an equal outcome has no
importance at all. It’s true, for example, that in some cases—especially in
the past—there have been groups that the ruling powers (personal or
impersonal) have indeed discriminated against and oppressed. These groups
often had no equal outcome because they were denied equal opportunity in
the first place—they didn’t finish the race because they weren’t allowed to
run in it to begin with. But there are also cases where, even after the
freedom of equal opportunity was made fully available, a particular group
did not do as well as they could, and in many cases that was because, over
the years, they had adapted to not running in the race at all, and so, even
when allowed to do so, they did not participate. (In many ways, this was
true of women in higher education.) But in looking to redress that
imbalance, we want to be careful not to focus on just equality and overlook
freedom. That is not the way to integrate orange and green; that is to be
caught in broken green, absolutistic green.

In the culture wars, people almost always side with green equality or
orange freedom—but clearly we need both. The number of women
graduating college in the 1960s is a clear example of a huge difference in
outcome—a difference not in freedom but in equality (61 percent of the
degrees going to men and only 39 percent to women). Advocates of orange
equal opportunity were not that concerned with this result because, after all,
women had been given an equal opportunity to apply to college, and so any
unequal outcome was thought to be the product of merit (in other words, it
was thought that men were more interested than women in attending
college, and thus more were admitted and eventually graduated). But this
difference in outcome is well worth looking into. It turns out that,
historically, higher education was not often an option for women, but due to
the changing roles of females in society, those options opened. By the
1960s, orange equal opportunity had made it illegal to deny giving women
those opportunities. But women’s roles, in too many cases, did not include
higher education. So beginning in the mid-1960s, U.S. society (led by the
Boomers, the first generation in history to have a leading edge of green
values) began to adopt practices that helped young girls and women orient
themselves to achieving a higher education. These efforts were wildly
successful. In fact, by 2015, the percentages of men and women receiving
college degrees had completely reversed: 61 percent of all college degrees
were being given to women and only 39 percent to men.
Some critics say that this was the result of policies that had gone too far,
that they had extended to an all-out attack on males in education and in
many other areas (for example, see books with titles such as The War
against Boys and The Boy Crisis). Harvard, for example, has been sued by a
group of Asian students who claim that they have been discriminated
against in favor of black students when it comes to admissions. Because
Asians as a group routinely scored higher than blacks (as well as all other
races) on SAT scores, and Harvard wanted to create a racially diverse
student body, Harvard (and other colleges) added hundreds of points to the
SAT scores of blacks, and then compared the adjusted score to the
nonadjusted score of Asians, and selected those with the higher score for

admission. This, of course, limited the freedom of Asians to enter Harvard
in the name of more equality in the number of accepted blacks—it limited
the Asians’ opportunity in order to achieve a more equal outcome. Clearly,
merit on its own is a value that favors freedom and limits equality.
Integral points out that because these two value systems represent real
stages of development through which everybody grows, they need to be
integrated and not simply pitted against each other, as they are in today’s
culture wars. To a large degree, the culture wars—amber against orange
against green (the traditional values of ethnocentrism versus the modern
values of freedom versus the postmodern values of equality)—are the result
of the developmental unfolding of Growing Up. Until that fact is taken into
account, there seems to be no end in sight for the ever-increasing
polarization of society. The only antipolarizing force on the cultural horizon
seems to be the slow but steady increase in the emergence of the Integral
stages.
THE PROGRESSIVE LEFT AND THE CONSERVATIVE RIGHT
Let me quickly draw out a few more points with regard to these culture
wars, since they will help us understand the green postmodern stage and its
values. Recall that Graves labeled the amber, orange, and green stages,
respectively, “absolutistic,” “multiplistic,” and “relativistic.” Notice the
progression—from an ethnocentric group absolutistically having the one
and only truth (which is a myth), to a multiplistic rationality that recognizes
that anything can be looked at from many different perspectives (including
that of modern science, whose rationality is believed to give a much more
accurate truth than myth), to a relativistic postmodernism, whose increased
complexity cuts truth loose from any anchoring and makes it deeply relative
(and since in this “posttruth” world, all truths are relative, they all have the
same value; hence this stage’s emphasis on egalitarianism, multiculturalism,
and equal outcomes). If either the multiplistic view (orange) or the
relativistic view (green) is held in a truly fanatical, zealous, and absolutistic
fashion—as often happens in the culture wars—then the person can actually

regress to absolutistic amber, which, along with all other amber beliefs, is
deeply ethnocentric and quite convinced that it has the one and only truth.
Unfortunately, since its emergence in the 1960s, green has in many
cases become more and more dysfunctional, zealous, fanatic, and
absolutistic—green has too often become “broken green,” and this is a very
large player in the culture wars. Broken green dominates the liberal arts
fields in academia—and is increasingly invading the STEM fields as well,
as Jordan Peterson reports—entertainment, and the media. It drives political
correctness, identity politics, and far-Left politics. Identity politics starts out
wanting more of an equal outcome for all minorities, but it is, by definition,
ethnocentric identity politics. That you deliberately choose to belong to one
identity rather than another means that you are deliberately choosing to be
ethnocentric. The more zealously and absolutistically a person holds those
identities, the more likely they are to regress to amber ethnocentric. Thus
they inadvertently become living examples of the types of ethnocentric
racism or sexism they are protesting against so aggressively. This is why the
far Left are sometimes called “the regressive Left”—they are indeed
regressing from green to amber. So regressively ethnocentric do they
become, they imagine that it is not even necessary for them to talk to their
opponents, who are often simply shouted down. In other words, they have
become a new fundamentalist religion, with their own dogma and heretics
and blasphemers. (This has also been noted by various social
commentators, who refer to the far Left as “America’s new religion.”)
The central problem with broken green is that it believes that all
differences between groups are solely the result of discrimination and
oppression. If everybody does not finish the race of life at the same time,
this not because there are winners and losers, or differences in interests or
desires—there are only oppressors and victims. And that is the only choice
a person has: to be a victim or an oppressor. These otherwise idealistic and
often good-hearted folks tend to regress to amber absolutistic, which is
indeed ethnocentric, and this is why they think that they don’t even have to
talk with anybody who disagrees with them (no truly worldcentric stage
would ever say anything like that).

At this amber absolutistic level, they join the truly ethnocentric groups
that are already there—real neo-Nazis, members of the KKK, white
supremacists, and so on. This is a primary cause of the powerful
retribalization, polarization, and increasingly nasty culture wars that grip
the United States, as ethnocentric identity tribes fight other ethnocentric
tribes with no end in sight, each of them acting, in effect, as a
fundamentalist religion.
Politically, this has produced something of a nightmare. The rise of
modernity, which included events such as the French and American
revolutions, involved the emergence of the orange rational-worldcentric
stage of development (which the historian Will Durant called “the Age of
Reason and Revolution”). The rational-worldcentric view of freedom held
by modernity was in sharp contrast to the conventional, traditional, mythicoriented sense of ethnocentric values, which a political conservatism did
indeed want to conserve. This new orange worldcentric orientation
desperately wanted progressive social change, an increasing freedom for all,
and this was such a novel value that a new term had to be invented for its
political stance. The term chosen was liberal, taken from liberty, which
reflected orange’s strong embrace of individual freedom and liberty as its
central values.
It just so happened that, in the French assembly, the old conservatives
sat to the right of the king, and these new-fangled liberals sat to the left—
and the terms Right and Left stuck and continue to be used today for the
names
of
these
two
major
political
orientations—the
conservative/traditional Right and the liberal/progressive Left.
For a few hundred years, the amber conservative Right and the orange
liberal Left were the two dominant orientations in Western politics. They
faithfully represented the central values of the two stages that gave birth to
them. The conservative Right, driven largely by ethnocentric amber, was
very traditional, fully embraced the conventional mythic religion, was
devoted to a mythic God and country and family, and was often
ethnocentric in unpleasant ways (perhaps unavoidable at that stage): they
were often racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, militaristic, and

assigned rights to special group. They embraced all of this as something
close to absolute truth.
The new liberal Left, on the other hand, was indeed mostly orange:
deeply worldcentric and rational instead of ethnocentric and mythic, they
believed in science instead of mythic religion (hence they would, for
example, almost immediately accept the theory of evolution, unlike the
Right, which abhorred it). They were often known as “progressive,” and
they especially believed in liberty as individual freedom (equal opportunity)
and that these freedoms were the universal rights of all.
Liberal philosophers began writing treatises with names like The
Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen. The notion of universal
rights was indeed radically new, since the only rights in existence at that
time were ethnocentric rights, the rights of a privileged group. When you
die, for example, if you are a Christian, then you go to heaven and live with
God forever. But if you are a Hindu, or a Jew, or a Buddhist, you have no
rights; you burn in hell forever. Liberal philosophers were shocked at this.
They believed that a person had individual rights universally or
worldcentrically, simply in virtue of being born a human being.
It turns out that titles like “the Universal Rights of Man”—where “man”
refers only to “males”—were accurate. Even these original, orange
philosophers were almost entirely white, European, able-bodied, propertyowning, cisgendered, heteronormative males. Not exactly universal. But the
liberal principles of freedom that they introduced were indeed universal, so
these orange principles of freedom (as equal opportunity) inexorably began
to expand beyond white European males. Historically, they expanded first
to include black males, then women, then gays, and are now moving to
include all transpersons and any other minority whatsoever, because
worldcentric means worldcentric.
The ever-more inclusive scope of these rights was enormously helped
by green postmodernism. It, too, was worldcentric, so both modern orange
and postmodern green wanted to treat all people fairly, regardless of race,
color, sex, or creed—but what orange and green meant by “treating fairly”
was quite different. As we’ve seen, fairness for orange means that

everybody has equal opportunity (or freedom), whereas fairness for green
means everybody has an equal outcome (or equity). Historically, the
original Right (amber) and Left (orange) dominated the political landscape
for several hundred years. However, in the 1960s, a third major player—the
relativistic, multicultural, egalitarian, postmodern green stage—began to
emerge. And since “two’s company, three’s a crowd,” the addition of this
third player threw U.S. society into the culture wars.
This was particularly confusing for liberals. For centuries, the Left had
represented orange values of individual freedom and liberty (as universal
equal opportunity). But precisely because they were “progressives,” as the
new green stage began to emerge, a large number of liberals progressed to
this postmodern stage. Those who did were often surprised to find that the
values generated at this green stage were quite different from those of the
classic, orange liberal stage. Where a classic, orange liberal—call them the
“old Left”—believed in freedom (as equal opportunity), the green “new
Left” believed in strict equality (as equal outcome). Orange old Left
believed in individual rights, green new Left believed in social rights; old
Left believed in democracy, new Left believed in socialism; old Left
believed in individual justice, new Left believed in social justice. As usual,
freedom and equality, being opposites, did not get along very well. (And, as
usual, Integral claims both of these should be integrated. Sophisticated
political thinkers know this, since many of them are actually coming from
Integral stages of development.)
For the Left itself, the words liberal and Left no longer meant the same
thing. Being liberal now meant being a classic liberal, an old Left liberal,
representing orange values of freedom as equal opportunity, which were
opposite to the values of equality that the new Left believed in. Thus the
Left itself came to mean just the “new Left.”
This has caused enormous confusion in politics, because while
everybody recognizes the difference between freedom and equality, almost
nobody sees their real source, the development from orange to green. Many
classic orange liberals—who could not embrace these new green values—
would lament, “I didn’t leave the Democrats, the Democrats left me.” It

became common to say, in so many words, “These new Democrats have
lost their collective mind.” It’s certainly true that the new Left (postmodern
green) largely replaced the old Left (classic orange) in voicing the nowaccepted values of its political party (the Democrats).
In many ways, liberal and Left went their separate ways. This split
between liberal (classic orange) and Left (postmodern green) is one of the
things you hear most lamented in political discussions on YouTube—such
as any PragerU video—although nobody seems to understand the reason for
its existence. The difference between liberals and the new Left is widely
noted by both groups, and new-Left Democrats are often viewed by many
people as being “crazy” (because broken green is indeed rather crazy).
Interestingly, the party that did start embracing classic liberal values
was the conservative “new Right.” That is, as evolution continued forward,
just as a portion of the original Left had jumped up a stage from orange to
green, so a portion of the original Right also jumped up a stage from amber
to orange. After all, since the new leading edge of culture was green, one of
the older, now more traditional values worth “conserving” was orange!
People aligned with the orange new Right were often called “Wall Street
Republicans,” since they embraced the orange values of modern Wall
Street. The new Right openly embraced the worldcentric values of the
original orange or classic liberal. Thus, for example, the new Left often
opposed free speech if it hurt minorities—it maintained that “hate speech is
not free speech,” although the Supreme Court had already ruled that hate
speech is fully protected by the Constitution (hate speech is exactly what is
protected by free speech). But now the new Right—coming from an orange
worldcentric stage—vigorously supported this originally orange liberal
value of free speech, and almost alone vocally championed it. The old
Right, of course, was the original Right—still coming mostly from an
ethnocentric amber—and it stayed where it had always been—amber,
ethnocentric, sometimes racist, sexist, homophobic, fundamentalist. But the
new Right, having moved into orange values, fully supported the modern
worldcentric liberal values of individual liberty and freedom.

The new Left, on the other hand, especially when it operates from a
broken green, tends to see anybody who disagrees with them as being a
Nazi (it literally makes these charges daily). Of course, any sane society
should oppose real fascism (generated at ethnocentric amber) wherever it
shows up. But without understanding the developmental realities that are
usually involved in these value systems, green has no way to estimate the
real threat of amber fascism, and thus almost always vastly overestimates it.
(For example, green is always pointing to members of the KKK as being
the real fascists that we desperately need to watch out for. But the KKK in
the 1920s had close to 4 million members; whereas today, according to the
Southern Poverty Law Center, it has a mere six thousand—not even enough
to fill one football stadium. A major reason for this huge decrease is that the
social center of gravity of the United States has continued to evolve to
higher levels of worldcentric and thus there are fewer numbers at
ethnocentric—something that is only obvious if you are aware of those
stages to begin with.)
Fascism (of the amber type) is at least two major developmental stages
behind leading-edge green, and hence there is no realistic chance of amber
fascism taking over the influential centers of this society. The universities
are dominated by green, the media are dominated by green, entertainment is
dominated by green. There is no university anywhere in this country where
you can take a course on “how to be a good neo-Nazi.” Of course, you want
to do what you can to reduce any real amber fascism that is present, but
what is much more troublesome about the culture wars is that the leadingedge of cultural evolution is green—which is still a fragmented 1st-tier
stage, not an integral 2nd-tier stage—and therefore green can do little to
help unify or integrate the world. Even worse, it is often a broken green,
which puts a regressive pull on cultural progress (the “regressive Left”),
and this regressive embrace of absolutism is not helping things at all.
Most of the moves toward strict equality and equity (whether they are
truly justified or not) stem from the egalitarian, multicultural, relativistic
perspective of this green stage. It differentiates the unity of the world’s
different cultures and populations, the unity of systems that strongly

characterize orange rational, and therefore it emphasizes the resulting
diversity (which is a primary value of green). But it can’t yet fully integrate
this diversity or truly unify it on a higher level, and thus it inadvertently
contributes to a fragmented, relativistic, retribalized, and segmented world,
which tends toward violence and extreme polarization. It’s only at the next
stage (the Integral) that this genuine unification or integration can truly
occur.
THE VIRTUES OF GREEN
I’d like to devote a little space to extolling the virtues of green and its
pluralism. I tend to focus on the negatives, because in today’s culture, much
of green is broken green, which is indeed a massive problem, given that
green is today’s leading edge of cultural evolution (which is the major
reason that the media, academia, and entertainment tend to be dominated by
green—and that also means that they are also more open to a broken green).
But healthy green has many virtues, which I summarize as (1)
contextualism (all meaning is context dependent), (2) constructivism (all
realities are constructed, in the sense of possessing development, as stage
after stage is constructed), and (3) aperspectivism (there is no dominant and
exclusively correct perspective). All of those terrific ideas were contributed
by green pluralistic.
In terms of the discussion that we have been having about the culture
wars, what green contributed becomes obvious (here we have to be careful
to try and separate healthy green from broken green, since broken green is
what you often see in the culture wars). Green itself, being worldcentric,
agreed with orange that all people should be treated fairly, regardless of
race, color, sex, gender, or creed. Orange had spent some two hundred years
attempting to apply freedom (as equal opportunity) to all people. As we
mentioned, this expanded over time from white men to all black men to all
women to all gays to all transgender people to all minorities everywhere.
And in a stunning number of ways, this was wildly successful.

For instance, in 1871, a woman in Illinois finished law school, applied
for her law license, and was told that it was illegal for a woman to practice
law. She took it to the Illinois Supreme Court, and they agreed: it was
illegal. So she took it to the United States Supreme Court, and in an 8-to-1
decision, the highest court in the land ruled that it’s illegal for a woman to
practice law. But by 1920, women had gained the vote, and today, female
lawyers are everywhere. Today the United States has gone from being a
country where slavery was legal, there were laws against women practicing
law, Jews were horribly discriminated against, and homosexual activity was
morally and legally prohibited to a country where there are laws against
every one of those things. Orange equal opportunity has, by law, been
extended to virtually every minority. This is why most people in today’s
criminal justice system strongly maintain that all our laws are written so
that they apply fairly to all minorities and no group is excluded or
marginalized by law—so, for example, in this sense, there is no legal
systemic racism, sexism, or marginalization in general.
Now technically that is true. There are no laws that say, for example, “If
you are a bank, give women fewer loans,” or “You must create hotels for
whites and hotels for blacks, and they have to be separate.” There used to be
laws like that, but today if a bank does that, it can be severely fined and the
perpetrators even sent to jail. In the objective, material world, where the
laws are written and are part of institutions—the objective world that
orange rationality largely created—there is very little legal, systemic racism
or sexism. It used to be everywhere in that world, but you can hardly find
any of it now. Most laws themselves are indeed worldcentric, applying
equally to everybody (thanks to orange freedom). But there are still plenty
of ways that our institutions are not equitable.
In the subjective, interior world, where the people who make decisions
about how to apply those nondiscrimination laws grow and develop from
egocentric to ethnocentric to worldcentric to integral, there are still
ethnocentric prejudices to a fairly large degree. Being ethnocentric is not a
law but a level of development through which every person, without
exception, passes; and we already saw that, according to Robert Kegan’s

research, three out of five people remain stuck at an ethnocentric stage. So
if 60 percent of our population is at an ethnocentric stage, they are going to
apply worldcentric laws in ethnocentric and discriminatory ways. And,
obviously, here in the interior world, you cannot make a law against being
ethnocentric. If somebody is at an ethnocentric stage of development and
they happen to be in charge of applying the objective laws (which are
technically worldcentric), the decisions that they make will often—no
surprise—themselves be ethnocentric. There is no law that says, for
example, “Traffic police should stop black people at a higher rate than
white people,” but that nonetheless still happens. In today’s world, most of
the really pernicious racism, sexism, and bigotry are found not in systemic,
objective institutions or laws but in subjective, interior decisions and
applications of those laws.
Unfortunately, the elements necessary to understand this problem—
namely, the existence of interior stages of development—are almost totally
unknown in the culture at large. There is no cure for a disease whose cause
you do not know.
Here is where green has focused its attention, even if it doesn’t
understand the causative factors very well (and where broken green badly
distorts and amplifies them). Even though the laws themselves in the
criminal justice system are almost entirely worldcentric, they are not always
being applied worldcentrically. The people who are applying them are not
mostly worldcentric (orange or green) but are variously egocentric (red) or
ethnocentric (amber), and so naturally some of these real people are
applying the laws in much less than a worldcentric fashion. Green has
mostly focused on that kind of discrimination. Even if the major problem
now is getting the culture at large to understand where these ethnocentric
values come from, green has done a great deal to attack and limit the
personal embrace of those values, and that has been perhaps its greatest
contribution to Western society at this point. This has been the focus of
much of green’s social activism, and in that regard, green has performed a
major social service.

Just listen to this list of things that social justice activists point to—but I
think that what they really mean in each case is not that the objective
institutional laws themselves need to be changed but that the subjective
human attitudes that go into making decisions that apply these laws need to
be addressed (even if these activists still have no understanding of the
stages of development that are involved). Here’s the list: discrimination in
the educational system (such as who gets admitted to leading universities),
the medical system, the legal system, the financial system, the economic
system, family systems, and political systems (members of the Right are
constantly blamed for being anti-women, anti-black or racist—and if they
are indeed members of the amber ethnocentric old Right, they might
actually be racist, sexist, or otherwise ethnocentric—that’s rather the whole
point here).
I want to emphasize this one point again: there are no written laws that
mandate any of these types of discrimination. There is not a single law that
says, “You must give minorities the death penalty more often than
everybody else”—and yet that is often exactly what happens, and it
especially happens when the people who apply the laws are themselves at
lower than worldcentric stages of development (and this includes broken
green who have absolutistically regressed from green to ethnocentric amber
—the “regressive Left”). So again, this is not because of the law itself but
because those who apply the law are at ethnocentric levels of development.
And whereas we can make ethnocentric laws illegal, we cannot make
ethnocentric stages of development illegal, unless we want to arrest every
person in the country at some point in their lives.
This is where the culture wars go completely insane. Both of the
worldcentric stages (orange and green) want everybody to be treated fairly,
regardless of race, color, sex, ethnicity, or creed. But, as we’ve seen, for
orange fairness means the freedom of equal opportunity, but for green it
means the equality of equal outcome. Thus, for orange, blacks are being
treated fairly if they have equal access to all society’s goods and a
nondiscriminatory equal opportunity to obtain any of its jobs—and orange
believes this has largely been achieved. But for green, fairness means equal

outcome, and because blacks make up 13 percent of the population, blacks
should hold at least 13 percent of all professions and major positions—
otherwise they are being discriminated against, they are still being
oppressed, they are victims. Hence, orange maintains that “there has never
been a place that treats blacks, women, and minorities better than the
United States does at this time—things have never been better!” But green
—seeing that there are less than 13 percent of blacks and less than 50
percent of women in various jobs—sees oppression and discrimination
everywhere—responds, “Things have never been worse!” And here the
culture wars explode into wildly polarized stances. (Amber, of course,
doesn’t like either one of them and contributes its own fundamentalist
religious values to the war.)
All of these views are true but partial, but their partial truths can be seen
only in a larger context, the genuine Wholeness of a complete Growing Up.
In other words, as we’ll see, the only real cure for this warfare is the
emergence, as a new leading edge, of the Integral stages. All these
combatants—amber, orange, and green—are 1st tier, which means that they
are focusing on a reality that is indeed true but partial. None of them are
capable of fully including the others. A 1st-tier stage thinks that its truth and
values are the only important truth and values in existence, whereas a 2ndtier (or Integral) stage begins to integrate them all and pull them into a
genuine Wholeness, and thus it can wind down the massive conflicts—and
culture wars. Everybody is still born at the beginning at square 1, and we
will always have individuals moving through those less than Integral stages,
but when an Integral stage becomes the leading edge of cultural
development, the entire tenor of a society changes. The leading-edge
question becomes not “Which of these values is right and how can we get
rid of the others?” but “How can we bring them all together? How can we
transcend and include them all?” In short, the only real cure for the culture
wars is the emergence of 2nd-tier Integral as the leading edge of cultural
evolution.

GROWTH HIERARCHIES VERSUS DOMINATOR HIERARCHIES
I’ll return to that topic when I discuss turquoise Integral, but since I am
especially focusing on green now, let me point out a particularly egregious
confusion that has been part of the leading edge for several decades, a
confusion that almost defines green (especially broken green): green usually
confuses growth hierarchies with dominator hierarchies. Precisely because
of its egalitarian stance (its desire for equal outcomes), if everybody is not
finishing the race at the same time, the only possible cause is discrimination
and oppression—that is, the sole cause of any variation in outcome between
groups is that there is a dominator hierarchy structured by tyrannical power.
Dominator hierarchies are all the nasty things that green says they are.
In dominator hierarchies such as a caste system, the Cosa Nostra and
organized crime, oppressive social systems, master-slave relationships, and
autocratic governments, the higher you are on the rungs of the hierarchy, the
more people you can oppress, exclude, dominate, and marginalize. The
higher the level, the more dominance there is; the lower the level, the more
oppression there is. To the extent that green saw all hierarchies as
dominator hierarchies, they naturally viewed them as being utterly horrid
and deeply immoral. Under those circumstances, “Flatten all hierarchies”
understandably became the only advice they offered.
But, as we’ve noted, there are many reasons why a particular person or
a group might have a different outcome than other people or groups. These
reasons certainly can include their being oppressed or marginalized, and
those need to be seriously examined. But if that is all that we look at, we are
massively stuck at green. There can be completely legitimate reasons from
all over the spectrum of development for there to be some sort of unequal
outcome—for example, different interests, skills, preferences, desires, and
goals. And yes, people can also be born with different genetic inheritances
(including aspects of IQ)—these come with the territory of the human
being.
As we’ve seen countless times, there are fundamental stances—
egocentric, ethnocentric, worldcentric, and integral—which are stages in a

very real growth hierarchy (Growing Up), where each stage gets more and
more inclusive. You are not born with green values of diversity and
multiculturalism. The only way you get to those values is through 5 or 6
major stages of Growing Up, which are stages of a growth hierarchy. But
green hates all hierarchies; it sees all hierarchies as dominator hierarchies in
which the upper levels exercise power to oppress and victimize those on the
lower levels. And thus green actively denies and fights the very path to its
own goals and values—that is, growth toward the next level of Growing
Up.
Green, in order to be genuinely healthy, needs to relax its zealous and
absolutistic embrace of equal outcomes as the sole aim of social justice.
There are an enormous number of legitimate reasons why there are
differences between people in this culture, from interests to biological
factors to cultural specialization; not all of the differences in outcomes are
due to people being oppressed or victimized. Foremost among these factors
are the stages of Growing Up, which constitute a genuine growth hierarchy
headed toward some of the very values of green itself.
The vast number of hierarchies in nature are not dominator hierarchies
but growth hierarchies. The hierarchy of quarks, atoms, molecules, cells,
organisms is not a dominator hierarchy but an evolutionary or growth
hierarchy. Molecules do not hate and dominate atoms; they include and
embrace them. If anything, they love them. Further, it’s only the lower
levels of Growing Up (egocentric and ethnocentric) that want to create and
use dominator hierarchies in the first place. The higher levels of Growing
Up (worldcentric and, especially, Integral) not only don’t create dominator
hierarchies but they actively fight them. They grow and expand beyond the
narrow and limited identities that want to control and dominate people, and
instead disclose more global, inclusive, diverse, and worldcentric identities
that treat all people fairly, regardless of race, color, sex, or creed. In short,
the only way that you can cure dominator hierarchies is by moving to a
higher level in a growth hierarchy.
Green gets into this mess not because it is stupid but because it is so
smart. Remember that green is actually a higher stage than orange—and

orange gave us everything from the abolition of slavery to modern physics
to landing a person on the moon. It is precisely because green can reflect on
the universal products of orange—and criticize them—that it suspects all
hierarchies are problematic. It’s smart enough to see the problem, but not
smart enough to solve it.
The good news is that all people are thus open to a genuine tolerance,
fairness, and care. The bad news is that, in denying all hierarchies, green
multiculturalism does not itself distinguish, in any understandable fashion,
between cultures that are egocentric, ones that are ethnocentric, and ones
that are truly worldcentric, or even integral. According to the unyielding
tenet of egalitarianism, they must all be treated the same way (“flatten all
hierarchies!”)—and thus, theoretically, we must invite to the multicultural
table, and treat completely equally, Nazis, the KKK, racists, and sexists of
all varieties. Of course, this is not what multiculturalism really wants; but it
has no way to get out of this mess because it has already stated that the one
fundamental tenet that cannot be denied is that all cultures and all values
must be treated as radically equal (and thus all deserve an equal outcome).
Because this stage has no idea how to integrate these many differentiations,
it is not until the next stage, the Integral stage, that this problem can be
solved. In the meantime, green is a politically correct Spirit seeking social
justice, and this Spirit is usually taken as being some sort of ecologically
interwoven, systems-theory Gaia, with numerous multiple and different
cultural interpretations, all of them equally valid (although many of them
are rejected for emotional reasons, starting with the interpretations made by
white males).
GREEN RELIGION
Religion at this green stage, emphasizing equality, is often used as a
primary justification for the activist pursuit of social justice. A large number
of Buddhist schools in the West, for example, are actually called “socially
engaged Buddhism,” and before that there was Christian liberation
theology. This occurs because this stage, in introducing a 4th-person

perspective, can actively reflect on the 3rd-person universal systems that
orange created. As it reflects on these monolithic, universal systems, which
are everywhere the same (there is not Hindu chemistry versus Protestant
chemistry; there is just chemistry), it sees instead a relativity of numerous
differences in all the various cultures and social values that fluctuate,
diverge, and alter considerably around the world. So green can effectively
differentiate these grand systems—hence, multiculturalism. But because it
cannot yet integrate these many differentiations, it simply, by default,
maintains that you must treat all of them equally—hence, its primary belief
in egalitarianism, its drive to equality, and its embrace of multiculturalism
(and its confused denial of all hierarchies).
This green-stage approach to spirituality is probably the most prevalent
one among middle-class, educated, leading-edge, social-media savvy
people in the United States—40 percent of millennials say they favor
socialism. This approach is definitely the most prevalent in anything calling
itself “New Age.” And we already saw the wide reach of “socially engaged
Buddhism.” In Christianity, it’s a bit rarer. When you do find a green
Christianity (with or without a Waking Up), it’s usually a Christianity
championing social justice, feminism, charity, love, Leftist politics, a
stewardship ecology, open-border immigration, LGBTQ rights, and antiIslamophobia—in other words, the green level itself is a primary
determinant of its beliefs.
Note that the higher the altitude of Growing Up that a particular
spirituality embraces, the further it moves from any of the original amber
myths that might have become dogmatic for that religion and that first arose
during that religion’s own mythic-literal stage—and thus the more delicate
an individual has to be in terms of how to use their spiritual intelligence to
interpret any of the basic myths and mythic tenets of their religion. This
becomes especially obvious with the green pluralistic-postmodern stage,
where the green multicultural values in many cases directly contradict many
of the core mythic-ethnocentric beliefs of the religion. In Christianity, these
beliefs include its patriarchal bias, a pervasive misogyny, a weak ecological
stance, a slavery-embracing attitude, and a significant antihomosexual

prejudice—all of which the green stage finds totally unacceptable—and
therefore they are, at this stage of spiritual intelligence, often firmly
rejected.
These types of clashes challenge religions like Christianity to find
higher-level interpretive frameworks that truly bring forth what is most
crucial to them. The central question that religions all over the world face
today is the following: If you give up the myths, what is actually left of your
religion? Think about that. Whatever the answer, it is going to be much
more relevant than things like “Moses parted the Red Sea,” “Lot’s wife was
turned into a pillar of salt,” and “Lao Tzu was nine hundred years old when
he was born.” And, with any luck, it will certainly include things like a real
Waking Up. “Let this consciousness be in you that was in Christ Jesus, that
we all may be one” is not a myth; it is a direct pointing to a real state of
unity in Waking Up, and this experience is at the core of whatever else it
may be that you can find in an authentic religion. Christianity is particularly
open to subtle Deity mysticism (“I and the Father are One”) and causal
Formless mysticism (the gnostic “God beyond God” and the Christian
Cloud of Unknowing), and it can push into a genuine turiya I-AMness
mysticism (Christ’s statement that “Before Abraham was, I AM” is a perfect
turiya intuition, which is often called “Christ consciousness”) and
occasionally Nondual mysticism (at its highest, “the Word made flesh” is a
nondual intuition, and Christianity at its best is an “incarnational
mysticism,” or a Spirit/flesh nonduality).
As we’ve already seen, the fact that one has reached a causal Formless
mysticism means that one is open to almost any of the higher-stage mystical
experiences, and that is certainly true here. Although Christ definitely
brought a subtle-stage Deity mysticism (“I and the Father are One”), he also
stepped into a causal, Formless mysticism, which opened him to a direct
turiya I-AMness experience (“Before Abraham was, I AM”). This statement
of “I AMness” is the central element of Christ’s message to humanity.
There are some individuals at green who are drawn to Christianity, and
they are tending toward a green postmodern Christianity. (I’m not saying
that we should look at religion through these stages but that some human

beings are already looking at religion through these stages, and thus we
should make it consciously official.) Some of the better-known writers at
this stage are Bishop Shelby Spong and Marcus Borg (being authentic
green, both writers “transcend and include” orange rationality). Liberation
theology was one of the earliest forms of a green approach to spirituality.
Originating in Central and South America, it emphasized that, given
Christ’s stress on caring for the poor and disadvantaged, Christianity itself
should focus on social justice for the disadvantaged of this world and not
just a promise of the redemption of souls in a wholly other world. Real love
should be manifest now, not be some pie-in-the-sky promise. (Liberation
theology should have added that although this-worldly justice is an
important aspect of any comprehensive spirituality, you also need to include
real Liberation in liberation theology—that is, you need a real Waking Up
to go along with a green, postmodern Growing Up value system.)
For a Christian at green, Christ is seen primarily as a force of social
deconstruction (“I bring not peace but a sword” and “Woe unto you who are
rich, who are well fed, who laugh, whom everyone speaks well of”—in
other words, everything thought to be good is totally deconstructed), and
this involves inverting hierarchies (“The meek shall inherit the earth, the
poor in spirit will gain the Kingdom of Heaven,” and so on). That is, by
inverting hierarchies—which green believes are the major forms of
oppression—Christ brings love as social justice to this world. Because
systems are also held together by love, Christ is an ecologist at heart and
wants to bring a loving care to all beings on the planet, emphasizing their
fundamental equality (bioequality—all living beings are equal strands in the
Great Web of Life). In reaching out to the gentiles, Christ demonstrated his
profound commitment to diversity and inclusion (the primary values of
green). One religious scholar has summarized Christ’s teaching as being a
“radical egalitarianism,” which pretty much sums it up.
Likewise, if one is a Buddhist at this green stage, one will tend toward a
“socially engaged Buddhism”—a Buddhism that is anchored in social
justice, Leftist politics, feminism, LGBTQ rights, ecology, open-border
immigration, and so on, through a fairly standard list of green values.

Focusing specifically on green’s spiritual intelligence, how can we best
summarize what green brings to the picture (quite apart from whatever
Waking Up experience may or may not be present)? The core of the green
spiritual worldview could be called a type of multicultural pantheism. The
totality of the interwoven manifest universe (Gaia or the Great Web of Life)
is ultimately Spirit (identifying Spirit with the totality of the created
universe is why it’s pantheism), but Spirit appears differently to the various
cultures around the world, each of them equally valid (that’s the
multicultural part). However, because green doesn’t know how to integrate
these multiple cultural systems, it defaults to claiming that all of them are
fully equal, and thus its primary concern is a social justice that ensures not
equal opportunity but equal outcomes for all people.
This stage will go down in history as the preparatory ground for that
“cataclysmic” and “monumental leap of meaning”[1] that the Integral stage
will bring as it leaps beyond green (and 1st tier altogether) into a genuine
2nd tier, which is the first truly holistic and integrated stage in human
history. Let’s take a careful look at this and at the profound type of
Wholeness that it brings, and at how you can incorporate this Wholeness
into your own life right now, shall we?
OceanofPDF.com

9
The Inclusive-Integral (or Turquoise)
Stage
The Integral stage has an enormous amount of evidence supporting it. For a
listing of the terms various researchers have used for this stage, see table 6.
TABLE 6. Equivalents to the teal holistic and turquoise integral stages
Researcher/system

Growing Up stage

Integral

teal holistic and turquoise integral

Commons and Richards

paradigmatic and cross-paradigmatic

Fischer

systems of systems

Fowler

universalizing

Gebser

integral

Graves

systemic/integrated

Kegan

integrated interindividual

Kohlberg

universal ethical

Loevinger

autonomous and integrated

Maslow

advanced self-actualization

Torbert

ironist

Wade

authentic

Note the emphasis on the terms integrated, systemic, holistic, and crossparadigmatic.
THE NATURE OF THE INTEGRAL STAGES
All previous stages—archaic fusion, red magic, amber mythic, orange
rational, and green postmodern—are often combined into what is called
“1st tier,” because they all have one thing in common: each 1st-tier stage
thinks that its truth and values are the only important truth and values in
existence; all the others are childish, confused, goofy, or just plain wrong.
But starting at the Inclusive-Integral stage, with what is called “2nd tier,”
the idea is that all the previous stages are deeply significant—if nothing
else, each of them is a stage in human growth and development, and so
none of them can be deleted or skipped. This makes Integral 2nd tier the
first truly holistic and inclusive stage in existence and a stunningly
profound leap in evolution—Clare Graves called it “cataclysmic” and a
“monumental leap in meaning.” Although it is just beginning to emerge, it
promises to profoundly change human nature as we know it.
As I did earlier with magenta and red (magic and magic-mythic), I am
here combining two major stages into one. The two stages are teal Holistic
and turquoise Integral. Whenever I mean just one of them, I’ll use the
separate names/colors, but for the most part, I’m here combining them into
turquoise Inclusive-Integral because they both are 2nd tier, both are very
rare, and together they represent the very best of the Wholeness that is
offered by Growing Up. Depending on which developmental model you
use, the percentage of the population at teal Holistic is 5–7 percent and at
turquoise Integral 0.5–2 percent, so we could say that the percentage of the
population at the combined stage of turquoise Inclusive-Integral is around
6–8 percent. In any case, 2nd tier is clearly the leading edge of evolution at
this time, and it will almost certainly be the main stage from which any
truly genuine Religion of Tomorrow will spring.[1] (People at even higher

stages of 3rd tier, or super-integral stages, are extremely rare today, making
up less than 1 percent of the population, so they have very little impact on
world events—but they will become increasingly significant in the future.
So for now, we put almost all of our interest in 2nd tier.) When I use the
term Integral, I mean both this 2nd-tier stage of development (turquoise
Inclusive-Integral) and also Integral Metatheory itself, which includes the
entire AQAL Kosmic Address.
The developmental model of Harvard’s Michael Commons is typical of
the sophisticated models that include both these integral stages. One of his
followers, Hanzi Freinacht, describes Commons’s paradigmatic level (in my
terminology, teal Holistic) as follows: “Can deal with several very abstract
metasystems to create new ways of thinking of the world, new paradigms,
new sciences or branches within sciences.”[2] Commons calls the second
level, his highest level, “cross-paradigmatic” (in my terminology, turquoise
Integral) because it takes (teal) paradigms and cross-synthesizes them with
other paradigms to create even greater Wholes. Freinacht describes this
cross-paradigmatic level as follows: “Can deal with several paradigms to
create new fields. Examples are Newton’s reformulation of physics,
Darwin’s theory of evolution, Einstein’s theory of relativity, the invention
of quantum physics, the invention of chaos mathematics and complexity,
the invention of computing, the invention of the holistic ‘integral theory’ of
Ken Wilber, the invention of string theory.”[3]
You can see that both of these Integral levels, whatever their subtle
differences, involve an extraordinary amount of detailed complexity
brought together into incredibly new Wholes. And these wholes—at least
according to “the holistic ‘integral theory’ of Ken Wilber”—include Waking
Up, Growing Up, Opening Up, Cleaning Up, and Showing Up—which,
when thus brought together in a cross-paradigmatic fashion, form a genuine
Big Wholeness. Yes, turquoise Inclusive-Integral does involve the capacity
to do that. And just as important, turquoise involves ways to look for
entirely new types of Wholes. For example, Plotinus was a beautiful genius
who was also as integral as a thinker of his time could be. He dealt mostly
with Showing Up (which includes all of the fundamental dimensions of

reality) and Waking Up (how to directly experience the One), but there was
no specific understanding of Growing Up, Opening Up, or Cleaning Up
when he was alive, and so those forms of Wholeness were not included. But
for any of today’s approaches, those forms of Wholeness are crucial.
TURQUOISE INCLUSIVE-INTEGRAL AND ONE TASTE
It should be clear from Freinacht’s examples of cross-synthesis that any
contemporary Integral approach would include mainstream sciences, and
Integral Metatheory certainly does. But in this book, I am focusing
especially on spirituality and spiritual intelligence, so in this section allow
me to continue to focus on that topic.
When turiyatita or One Taste first came into significant existence in
Waking Up, it was primarily accompanied by the Inclusive-Integral stage of
Growing Up. Of course, with the emergence of rational, causal
Formlessness, the existence of all higher states of mystical experience
became at least possible, because consciousness itself had been cleared of
all forms. But when turiyatita One Taste came into existence, it was almost
always accompanied by the Inclusive-Integral stage of development, which
made the interpretation of One Taste so incredibly inclusive. Although the
stages of Waking Up and Growing Up are relatively independent, when the
turquoise Integral stage of Growing Up first became available, by its very
nature it tended to push the highest stage of Waking Up into a turiyatita
realization. It was the combination of these two (turiyatita One Taste
interpreted by the Inclusive-Integral stage) that gave rise to such holistically
inclusive and integrative approaches as Tibetan Buddhism, Tantra, Vedanta,
and Vajrayana in general.
If one were a Christian, since all stages of Growing Up are important
and none can be skipped, at this turquoise Integral stage, Christ’s teaching
would be seen clearly as something that should be interpreted as it appears
at each developmental stage. Thus it would be able to speak effectively to
every stage of Growing Up and would not make one stage the dogmatic and
only correct stage (which would free Christianity from its typical “mythic-

literal” dogma). Further, educating its followers on how the Christian
message is interpreted at each of the major stages of Growing Up makes
Christianity function as a pacer of transformation—an instigator of an
authentic Growing Up, in addition to any Waking Up that it might provide. I
refer to any system that helps with this Growing Up transformation as a
“conveyor belt,” and Christianity as conveyor belt reflects this Integral
understanding.
Because of its truly comprehensive nature—which is open to embracing
a genuinely Big Wholeness—turquoise Integral can potentially include
Growing Up and Waking Up (as well as Cleaning Up, Opening Up, and
Showing Up), and these would all be embraced together for the first time in
our history in what is indeed a Big Wholeness. This Integral approach will
occur whether or not religion gets on board; but if it does, we will have a
genuine and authentic Religion of Tomorrow, coming at us from a future
and higher stage of evolution, not from a past and considerably lower stage
of evolution. We have all come up from Eden on our way back to Heaven.
This will change our deepest notions about human nature itself—what it
is, and what it can become. And religion will become not what it is now—
which is too often the recipient of mocking and reviling ridicule from the
modern and postmodern mind—but instead a primary pacer of social
transformation itself, helping humanity not only Wake Up but also Grow
Up, thus genuinely demonstrating that it is indeed an authentic Religion of
Tomorrow acting as a true conveyor belt of genuine social transformation.
Given the truly holistic nature of this Integral stage, if its spiritual
intelligence directly acknowledges the reality of spiritual states of
consciousness in Waking Up, it will usually be open to all 5 types of
mysticism, with an emphasis on turiya and turiyatita. It will also recognize
that although turiyatita is indeed the ultimate state of Waking Up that has
been realized to date, all the other major spiritual states can also be included
—and each of them can and will be interpreted from one of the 6-to-8 major
stages of Growing Up (in this case, the Integral stage).
In other words, a truly comprehensive spirituality (or any sort of
Integral Life Practice) launched from the turquoise Integral stage will be

open to the full recognition of each and every cell in the Wilber-Combs
Lattice (see figure 5.3). The Wilber-Combs Lattice is perhaps the most
compact summary of the totality of potentials available to human beings at
this point in evolution. There are other important potentials (Cleaning Up,
Showing Up, and Opening Up), but Waking Up and Growing Up are central
to the growth potentials. As we saw, across the top of the lattice are the 5
major states of Waking Up, and up the side of the lattice are the 6-to-8
major stages of Growing Up. Thus, the lattice gives a cogent summary of
the some of the highest human potentials discovered during the entire premodern-to-modern-to-postmodern-to-integral sweep of human evolution.
To actualize all the cells in the lattice is thus to realize the very best and
brightest of a million years of human evolution. And since that represents a
version of the good life, from now on, anything less will be deeply
unsatisfying.
Of course, reaching the Integral stage itself does not automatically
include a Waking Up experience, since Growing Up and Waking Up are
indeed relatively independent. At the same time, because the most adequate,
inclusive, and thus “best” stage from which to experience and interpret a
Waking Up awareness is indeed the turquoise Integral stage (because it’s
the most comprehensive), the ideal aim of somebody at the Integral stage,
when it comes to spiritual engagement itself, is to undertake practices and
exercises that will help them directly experience a genuine Waking Up. This
would include, if one were aiming for both of the ultimate states of
Enlightenment, a direct realization of turiya and turiyatita. (And since
turiyatita is predisposed to the Integral stage and turiyatita fully “transcends
and includes” turiya, both states are generally taken care of in an
Enlightenment that occurs with the turquoise Integral stage.) Besides, if one
takes up a comprehensive form of meditation—that is, one that includes all
5 states of consciousness as state-stages—then one will automatically
include all the possible stages of Waking Up, including the two highest or
ultimate states. And having the highest states of Waking Up interpreted by
the highest stages of Growing Up (that is, turiyatita One Taste interpreted

by turquoise Integral) is indeed an ideal situation, since it would “transcend
and include” all the cells in the Wilber-Combs Lattice.
Although this is technically a separate issue, I have already suggested
that it seems very likely that the spiritual schools that were created in
relation to the experience of One Taste were founded by teachers who also
had access to an Inclusive-Integral stage of development, or at least to a
type of proto-Integral cognition (for example, Nagarjuna and Plotinus).
Although Waking Up and Growing Up are relatively independent, Nondual
approaches to Waking Up represented such a radical and revolutionary
approach to spirituality, those who had already undergone the radical shift
from 1st tier to 2nd tier (thus moving into stages such as turquoise crossparadigmatic, with its enormous capacity for Wholeness) would be more
ready to accept them.
Keep in mind that, at any time in our history, there were some people
who were at every stage of the entire spectrum of Growing Up (Habermas
even estimated that there were a few people in tribal times that were at
formal operational—that is, orange in the Integral system). As for the other
end of the developmental spectrum, some people have estimated that the
percentage of people who are today fully at any stage in 3rd tier (superintegral) is less than 0.01 percent, but that still means that some 33,000
people in the United States are at one of those very high stages. So it’s
possible that the founders of any breakthrough discipline were often wildly
advanced or evolved (at least to 2nd tier, some to 3rd), even if their many
followers rarely were.
Thus it would not surprise me if the founders of any or all of the
Nondual schools of Waking Up spirituality were at 2nd-tier Integral or
proto-Integral stages of Growing Up (such as cross-paradigmatic, with its
staggeringly huge holistic capacity, made to order for accurately
interpreting a One Taste consciousness). But what is certain is that, like
Nagarjuna, they pushed from turiya to turiyatita in Waking Up, from a
formless Emptiness to an “Emptiness that is not other than Form,” from an
Absolute Subjectivity (or Consciousness without an object) to a nondual
One Taste that totally transcended (and included) subject and object, from a

nirvana totally separate from samsara to a nondual Ground that included
them both in a larger Wholeness. And this wasn’t simply the unity of a
Nature mysticism, where there is no realization of infinite Emptiness and
there is just a pantheistic spirit seen as the sum total of Form or the totality
of the finite manifest universe—what Underhill called a “horizontal
expansion of consciousness” not a “vertical transformation of
consciousness.” This, rather, was a genuine Ground of All Being, which
fully included Emptiness and Form, nirvana and samsara—not a Heaven
divorced from Earth but a real Heaven on Earth, a genuinely vertical
transformation of consciousness.
Perhaps the most brilliant harbinger of this evolutionary revolution was
the Buddhist genius Nagarjuna. So let me very briefly go over the role of
Nagarjuna and his revolutionary discoveries from an explicitly Integral
perspective so we can see exactly what was involved.
Nagarjuna had grown up in an atmosphere saturated with early
Buddhism, with its roots in a causal/turiya realization and a belief that
samsara itself—the manifest, finite, relative world—was inherently and
totally awash in dukkha (suffering), grasping, and illusion, and that the only
way to escape that illusion was to achieve a perfect extinction of all
phenomena in awareness, an extinction known as “nirvana” (a nirvana that
was totally separate from samsara, which was rendered completely extinct).
This causal/turiya realization was in fact deeply dualistic. Nirvana is
separate and different from samsara; Emptiness is separate and different
from Form; the One is separate and different from the Many. This was, at
best, the world of empty, Formless turiya, fully accessed in a pure nirvana
(extinction) and total nirodh (cessation)—a state that didn’t integrate
samsara but completely deleted it.
Nonetheless, this state of nirvana is not a myth. It is a very real, very
attainable state of Waking Up consciousness (namely, 4th-state turiya). We
saw shocking examples of it during the Vietnam war, where monks
protesting various things (from being prohibited from displaying the
Buddhist flag to the war itself) sat in meditation, got into a nirvana/nirodh
state of pure cessation, had their bodies doused in gasoline, and then set

themselves on fire. And right there on live TV, in front of millions of
viewers, they burned to the ground, and not one of them flinched once.
Nirvana is a very, very real state, and it does provide a type of genuine
freedom and liberation from the entire manifest universe.
Nagarjuna doesn’t question the existence of this state of nirvana; he
questions whether it is the highest state available. And he answers that
“No,” it is not. Beyond nirvana is the newly accessed nonduality (the 5th
state)—and this is a profoundly deeper and higher realization that unifies
and makes whole the lesser reality of nirvana alone that is sought in early
Buddhism. That is, instead of a nirvana totally separate from samsara and
an Emptiness totally divorced from all Form, Nagarjuna points to a
Nondual Reality that seamlessly unites nirvana and samsara, that
completely joins Emptiness and Form, that renders whole the One and the
Many. Those dualisms were discovered to be, at the deepest level, two
different aspects of an underlying nondual and holistic Reality, much as the
north and south pole of a magnet are two different aspects of a single
underlying reality (they are “not two” or “nondual”). The Heart Sutra
would soon put it in this way: “That which is Emptiness is not other than
Form, that which is Form is not other than Emptiness,” which means that
which is nirvana is not other than samsara, that which is samsara is not
other than nirvana. And that insight would change the entire world of
spirituality. For example, instead of seeing sex as a hindrance to spiritual
realization, sex and Spirit were now seen as not-two, and thus sex became
not a sin against Spirit but a direct road to Spirit—as we’ll see in chapters
17–19, when we explore Integral sexual Tantra.
Nagarjuna refers to this new and whole Reality by the term Shunyata,
which technically means “Emptiness.” But clearly this Emptiness is quite
unlike an Emptiness that is different from Form. That is, it is not
“Formless”; rather, this Emptiness “is not other than Form,” which means
that this Emptiness actually includes all Form—it is a Nondual unity that
fully includes regular Emptiness and all Form (they are actually “not two”).
In short, it’s not a dualistic fragmentation but a nondual Wholeness; it’s not

an Emptiness split from Form but an Emptiness one with Form—and that
new Wholeness is the real Emptiness (Shunyata or true Spirit).
But Nagarjuna’s point is even deeper than that. Because the question is,
How can you truly know or directly realize this Nondual Emptiness, this
ultimate and absolute Reality? And Nagarjuna’s point is that you cannot
simply understand a verbal and conceptual explanation of Emptiness. That
will give you only a knowledge by description. Rather, in order to be truly
known and fully realized, any ultimate Reality (true Emptiness or Spirit)
has to be directly and immediately experienced, or somehow enter direct
awareness—it’s a knowledge by acquaintance, not merely a knowledge by
description.
So imagine, as an example, someone at the orange stage of Growing
Up. They get a book about the turquoise-Integral stage—two stages higher
than their own—and they read it several times, memorize all the
characteristics of the Integral stage, take a written test about it, and answer
100 percent of the questions accurately, so they get an A+. Does this mean
that they know the Integral stage directly? No, they’re still at orange; they
are nowhere near directly knowing the Integral stage by acquaintance or
actual awareness. All they know are labels and descriptions, not real
experiences. It would be like taking a vacation to Bermuda by looking
through a book of maps—that’s not a real knowledge of Bermuda at all.
Likewise, for Nagarjuna, you have to directly experience Shunyata (in other
words, ultimate Unity consciousness, pure Nonduality)—because
otherwise, no matter how “accurately” you can describe that state, you still
don’t really know it—you’re just looking at maps, not the real Bermuda.
Nagarjuna formalizes this central point by saying that no matter what
quality or characteristic you choose for ultimate Reality—call it x (which
can stand for Spirit, God, Consciousness, the One, Nonduality, Love, Light,
the Good, the True, the Beautiful, or anything else)—Reality is neither x
nor not-x, nor both x and not-x, nor neither x nor not-x. So much for words,
right? You might say that ultimate Reality is pure Truth—but Nagarjuna
would say that Reality is neither Truth nor not-Truth, nor both, nor neither.
No words whatsoever are adequate, because none of them will give you a

direct experience of that Truth. In the terms of semiotics, if you don’t
actually know the real referent, no signifier whatsoever will substitute for it.
You can say the word orgasm again and again, but if you’ve never had an
orgasm, the word is nowhere near close to the real thing…and never will
be.
When it comes to truly knowing any ultimate Reality, any and all words
and concepts will fail us (yes, including those). Virtually all of our words
make sense only in contrast to their opposites—pleasure versus pain, good
versus bad, infinite versus finite, life versus death, and so on—but ultimate
Reality has no opposite, because it is totally and radically all-inclusive (but
even that word won’t work, because it also makes sense only in terms of its
opposite, all-exclusive—get it?).
But we can know this ultimate Truth—not by using relative words and
concepts but by changing our awareness to an ultimate state of
consciousness—such as an ultimate Unity consciousness or ultimate
Nondual awareness or One Taste. In that state of consciousness, we are
directly aware of that ultimate Reality itself, and the activation of that state
is the only correct answer to the question about what is ultimate Reality or
Spirit. If we haven’t had a genuine Waking Up, then any idea we have about
it will be based on opposites, and that’s not it (and what I just said won’t
work either—it’s all based on opposites). If we want the real territory and
not just another map of it, then we must awaken to that Reality directly—a
real Waking Up, a genuine vertical transformation of consciousness.
To summarize: the first thing about “real Emptiness,” “Nonduality,”
“ultimate Reality,” or “Spirit” is that it is beyond any and all words and
concepts (including those). It’s an actual state, a real Reality, but in order to
truly know it, it has to be a knowledge by acquaintance (or immediate
Awareness) and not merely by description (or words and concepts). And for
that to occur, you need a direct and immediate experience of the state itself.
Prior to that experience or direct realization, no words whatsoever will
work; after that realization, any words will work. (This can be easily seen in
Zen koans or stories, which make no rational sense whatsoever; they’re
based entirely on direct experience or satori, which, if you’ve never had,

will make no sense to you at all.) So you can be at any stage of Growing Up
and say anything you want to describe the ultimate Reality of Waking Up,
but none of those words will automatically give you a real Waking Up
experience—only the experience itself will show you the true Reality.
Words and concepts are fine for relative reality, for relative truth. We
can say, for example, “Water is made of two hydrogen atoms and one
oxygen atom,” and that’s fine, that works well. But when it comes to
ultimate Reality, we might be tempted to say, for example, “In relative truth,
water is made of oxygen and hydrogen, but in ultimate Truth, water is made
of Spirit.” Although that statement sounds like it makes sense, it doesn’t
really work; it is hollow—it actually has no real meaning, because just
saying “Spirit” isn’t at all the same as truly knowing Spirit, and the only
way that statement really can be understood is if you yourself directly and
fully experience Spirit itself. And for that to happen, no words at all will
substitute. For that to happen, you don’t need a Growing Up statement, you
need a Waking Up experience. Prior to that direct Waking Up, no words or
labels or concepts whatsoever will be genuinely true. We can say that, at
best, these statements are metaphoric, not descriptive. So my statements
here are all metaphoric, which means that you can interpret them however
you like, but to understand exactly what I mean by a Waking Up
experience, you will need a Waking Up.
So Nagarjuna tells us that mere Growing Up statements (or ideas of
spiritual intelligence) won’t get you anywhere near ultimate Truth. You
have to have what Zen calls a “satori,” which is a direct Waking Up
realization, a pure nondual experience. And thus when it comes to questions
like “What is Spirit?” or “Does God exist?” the only correct answer that can
be put into words is “Get satori and find out.” You literally cannot say, for
example, “Yes, God or ultimate Spirit truly exists”—that’s nothing but a
statement whose meaning depends on opposites. You must get satori or
have a genuine Waking Up experience, and hence directly see this ultimate,
absolute, all-embracing Reality for yourself.[4]

THE DUALISM INHERENT IN THE NEW PARADIGM IN SCIENCE
We have to be especially careful when some “New Paradigm” in science
purports to show that the unity it has discovered is the same Unity that the
mystics have always pointed to. It’s common to say, for example, with
David Bohm, that the “new physics” demonstrates that there is an
“implicate order” of ultimate unity underlying the “explicate order” of
separate things and events and that this “implicate unity” is the same
ultimate Unity that has been seen by the world’s mystics. But one thing is
certain: even if you learn every detail about some “New Paradigm” in
science, you’re nowhere near having a real Waking Up experience that
would actually show you that Reality. You’re just looking at more maps,
and Bermuda itself is nowhere in sight.
Worse, these maps themselves are deeply dualistic, and the unity they
refer to makes sense only in terms of its opposite. Bohm’s “implicate order”
makes sense only in terms of an “explicate order” that is separate and
different from it (and that’s what Bohm himself maintained). This is just the
same ole nirvana versus samsara, Emptiness versus Form, One versus
Many, that Nagarjuna savagely criticized for its dualistic fragmentation. I
mentioned this problem to Bohm once, and in subsequent work, he
introduced a “super-implicate” order, which was said to underlie both the
implicate and explicate orders and unify and integrate them both. But that’s
just more dualistic words—“super-implicate” makes sense only in contrast
to “super-explicate.” All that this will end up giving you—as Nagarjuna
demonstrated—is an infinite regress of silliness. The correct answer here is
a Waking Up realization—a direct experience of Bermuda itself—not more
Growing Up maps being confused with the real territory of Waking Up.
We see the same problem with quantum mechanics. The very common
New Age (and New Paradigm) view about quantum mechanics is that it
directly shows us that reality is a single, interwoven, entangled Unity, a real
Oneness underlying any separateness—in other words, it shows us an
“ultimate Unity” that is the same as that which is directly experienced in the
ultimate Unity consciousness of turiyatita (in the same way that, for

example, Fritjof Capra’s The Tao of Physics claimed that modern physics
shows us the same reality that a person practicing Zen perceives when they
have a real satori).
The intractable problem with that belief is that professional physicists
themselves never have anything like a real satori just by understanding
modern physics and the vast majority of professional physicists deny this
line of thinking entirely (they reject completely the idea that studying
modern physics will give you a mystical-unity experience of Waking Up). If
it were true that modern physics shows us an ultimate-Unity reality, then to
master modern physics would necessarily be to have a Waking Up
experience and directly know this ultimate Unity—however, in fact, that
pretty much never happens. It is indeed possible to have an ultimate Unity
consciousness, but that almost never happens by merely studying modern
physics. Just how similar can they be?
So, when a “New Paradigm” in science claims to show the ultimate
oneness of the world (the same unity that the spiritual mystics discover with
satori), be very, very careful of what you’re buying. It might give you some
sort of conceptual overview of things like systems theory and quantum
mechanics (and conceptually hook it to something like the akashic record of
the East). However, you can rest assured that whatever else this paradigm
might be doing, one thing it is not doing is giving you a real Waking Up to
the real territory. The Paths of Liberation would say that all you’ve done is
switch from iron chains to gold chains (but you’re still in chains). For that
genuine Reality, you need a real satori (or Waking Up) of some sort. And
there is no accurate way to describe what it is that you will see with satori;
you can only get satori and directly see for yourself.
Be very careful not to confuse a conceptual system of spiritual
intelligence in Growing Up with a direct experience of spiritual Reality in
Waking Up. Don’t confuse the finger pointing to the moon with the moon
itself—the stakes are simply too high.

THE MEANING OF TANTRA
Tantra is a form of spirituality best known, if not entirely correctly, as being
deeply connected with sex. What it does connect with is life force or prana
(which does include sex), and it does so in a very nondual way. Almost all
the earlier, pre-nondual (and pre-turiyatita) schools of spirituality, East and
West, had made some sort of sharp distinction between the present state that
we find ourselves in (this-worldly samsara) and the new state that we want
to get into (otherworldly nirvana). Those states were usually seen as being
quite different (the former, all bad, and the latter, all good), and the essential
point was to get out of sin, suffering, and samsara, and get into a blissful
liberation, salvation, and nirvana. In many of these schools, the body itself
was demonized, and anything that fed the flesh was seen as a severe
impediment to a realization of spirit. At the top of that list was sex. There
were few schools of Deity, Formless, or True Self mysticism that didn’t
recommend celibacy.
This is where we see the revolutionary impact of Tantra. Precisely
because, at its best, Tantra was deeply Nondualistic, it did not see Spirit and
sex as radically separate, or even opposed, but rather as two aspects of an
underlying Whole. And thus, sex was no longer an impediment to Spirit;
sex could actually be a direct path to Spirit. Hence, wherever Tantra
emerged (it developed in India from the eighth to the eleventh centuries
c.e.), spiritual initiation ceremonies often included sexual elements. In fact,
in India, tantric initiation often included what were called the “five M’s,”
which were five things whose Sanskrit names all happened to start with the
letter m that had been prohibited in most of the religions of the time—for
example, sex, alcohol, and red meat. These were instead fully embraced in
tantric initiations and practices as symbolic of the fact that, ultimately, there
is only Spirit wherever you look—absolutely nothing is excluded. This was
a kind of spiritual Wholeness, the likes of which had rarely been seen
before. Humanity’s virtually inherent recoil at existence itself as being
deeply wretched, fallen, and alienated—marked by original sin, intrinsic
dukkha, or existential angst—was finally seen through and let go of, and the

metaphorically ever-present, all-inclusive Great Perfection of this and every
moment was deeply realized. Again, we will be exploring an Integral sexual
Tantra in chapters 17–19, as part of the realization of a genuine Big
Wholeness.
As for this nondual Waking Up, the experience itself is that of feeling
oneself to literally expand to being one with the entire universe, and this
oneness is felt to be present in every state of consciousness that you may
have. You literally no longer see the sun—you are the sun. You no longer
feel the earth—you are the earth. You no longer see the stars—you are the
stars, all of them. What’s more, you directly feel that. In other words, your
awareness expands to include the entire world, and you directly feel that
you are one with all of that world. Your sense of being a separate-self sense
simply disappears. Your ego no longer has an experience—your ego
becomes every experience it has. That is, your sense of self expands to
enfold every single experience that it is having—it reaches out and
embraces the entire world, and you are all of that. This is why this
experience is often given names like “cosmic consciousness”—your
consciousness has become one with the entire cosmos, directly and
immediately.
And remember, this state is not disputable.
In Indian philosophy, it is called satchitananda, which means
“Being/Consciousness/Bliss.” Your Consciousness has become one with all
Being, which generates very blissful feelings because you are no longer
identified with any pain or suffering that might come from being just your
separate-self sense. You have completely let go of the ego and instead
discover a profound Unity or pure Oneness with the entire universe. That is
exactly what this turiyatita state feels like—like you have become one with
everything. Everything in the world is arising within you, and you are
indeed literally one with all of it. This is the true meaning of nonduality—
the subject and the object, your self and its entire environment, the seer and
everything seen, you and the entire world, are fully “not two,” a state of
Wholeness that is truly all-inclusive, a genuinely perfect Oneness.

SUMMARY: THE NECESSITY OF INCLUDING BOTH GROWING
UP AND WAKING UP
In looking at all of these structure-stages of Growing Up and the various
state-stages of Waking Up, one thing stands out: we desperately need both
of these pathways, or at least as much of both as we can get. Both Growing
Up and Waking Up disclose profoundly important, but very different, types
of Wholeness. And neither of these kinds of Wholeness is simply lying
around, waiting for all and sundry to see. You really do have to know where
to look and what exactly to do, in order to see and realize their everincreasing benefits. What’s more, understanding one of these types of
Wholeness will not show you the other type. Even if you do not agree with
my version of Growing Up or my version of Waking Up, I do hope that you
can see how stunningly important they are, in whatever version of them that
you might find acceptable. That is, do you at least accept that human beings
go through some sort of process of maturation and development (Growing
Up), and that they also have access to some kinds of extraordinary Waking
Up peak experiences? Both of these are indeed profound realms of meaning
and wholeness on the way to a genuinely Big Wholeness.
Although we have been focusing the Integral framework on religion and
spirituality, it is applicable across an extraordinary number of fields. In fact,
the Integral framework has been fully applied to over 60 different
disciplines to create more integral and comprehensive versions of all of
them (Integral Business, Integral Medicine, Integral Education, Integral
Politics, Integral Marketing, Integral Art, Integral Spirituality, and so on in
over more than 60 different fields). So I trust that, even as we have been
focusing on religion and spirituality, you could translate these Integral ideas
into any other area or field that you find interesting.
With regard to spirituality and Growing Up, we have seen that all
individuals, precisely because they grow and mature through around 6
major developmental stages, at each stage have a significantly different
understanding of any religion or spirituality that they are involved with
(because they have a different understanding of essentially everything).

Religion—and I don’t mean to insult the entire field, but this is true—is one
of the very few areas where its students, and even its teachers, as adults, can
be at almost any stage of Growing Up. For example, there are adult human
preachers, ministers, and pastors who are at red magic or amber mythic in
their spiritual intelligence, and they believe literally in every single magicmythic word of what they are saying. There are also those at orange, and
occasionally green and turquoise—in other words, the entire spectrum of
the stages of Growing Up. You rarely find this in other disciplines, at least
not when it comes to their official teachings. In science, for example, you
don’t find science professors teaching red magic animism or amber
astrology—rather, they teach orange astronomy; and they don’t teach amber
alchemy—rather, they teach orange chemistry; and so on. Nor do their
teachings span stages. It is not that the first year of medical school teaches
magic leeches and bloodletting, the second year teaches mythic phrenology,
and then finally the third year teaches rational antibiotics and surgery. No,
they are rational from the start. But there are versions of religion whose
teachers speak from each of these levels. There are some spiritual teachers
whose self-sense and teachings are red, some are amber, some orange, some
green, and some even turquoise integral.
The fact that religions pass through all of these levels means that it is
tailor-made to be a conveyor belt of Growing Up. Religion is already
(unconsciously) coming from virtually the entire spectrum of development
—why not do that consciously? This is quite idealistic and even utopian, I
admit, but can you imagine?
All human beings are going through these Growing Up stages in any
event, whether they belong to a formal religion or not. But if they do belong
to a religion, and that religion becomes Integral and makes these stages
known to its followers, then that religion could indeed act as a conveyor
belt—it would provide an actual map of, and a genuine guide to, personal
transformation in Growing Up. Whether the person has experienced a
Waking Up or not, they will still be progressing through all 6 or so of the
major levels of Growing Up, as we saw with James Fowler’s work; and
these levels will also apply to how their religion itself appears to them (as it

is interpreted from each of those stages). And if the religion does make
these stages clear, available, and conscious, it will actively enhance an
individual’s actual growth and development—it will be acting as a
conveyor belt of genuine transformation in Growing Up.
As a person begins the study of a conveyor-belt religion, they would
pick up the religious beliefs and practices as they appear in whatever stage
they themselves are at. They could be at the magic or mythic or rational or
pluralistic or integral stage, and they would pick up their religion as it is
explained and presented for that particular stage. They are going to be doing
this from their own stage in any event—it’s unavoidable—so why not make
the process conscious?
As the person continues their own growth and development, they would
adopt the successively higher stages of their religion, all the way into the
fully matured turquoise-Integral stages of Growing Up, which involve the
most whole, most complex and unified, and most conscious stages available
at this time in our evolution—a type of Wholeness offered only by the
process of Growing Up. Religions that do this would immediately cease
their growth-preventing fixation on the lower magic and mythic stages of
growth, which makes them subject to ridicule by most modern and
postmodern educated individuals. They would instead become a conveyor
belt of transformation, helping people move to higher and higher stages in
their own growth and development and becoming a genuine pacer of
transformation. Individuals would then, under guidance from their own
religion, simply follow the developmental sequence forward, growing and
developing in a fully conscious and aware fashion as they move through
successively higher stages of Growing Up. If they belong to a particular
church, there might be weekly gatherings for members of each stage—
stage-2 groups would meet on Tuesday, stage-3 groups Wednesday, stage-5
groups Friday, and so on.
And at any one of those stages of Growing Up, a person could still
pursue a Waking Up practice and experience, thus directly realizing the
ultimate Ground of Being in their own case—which is the ultimate goal of
genuine spirituality itself. Waking Up is still possible and very desirable—

it’s just that the Waking Up experience, with the ascent to higher stages of
Growing Up, will become more and more adequately and fully interpreted.
As it is right now, these stages of Growing Up are virtually unknown to
pretty much every person alive. The evidence for them is overwhelming—
some of the models of Growing Up have been tested in over forty different
cultures, and no major exceptions have been found to the general stages and
sequences. If religions around the world were to become conveyor belts,
then these stages would indeed become much better known, and individual
growth and development would be profoundly accelerated. Studies have
shown that if people learn the stages of a legitimate developmental model,
they develop through those stages more quickly. Further, we would free
religions from being stuck at mythic-literal or ethnocentric stages of
development. Making all of these stages of Growing Up known and
available to all would be perhaps the single greatest change that any
genuine Religion of Tomorrow could bring about.
And best of all, we can make this change right now, for ourselves, in our
own understanding and awareness. And that is exactly what we’re
attempting to do in this book, on the way to understanding a truly Big
Wholeness.
Remember that in Waking Up, the claim (metaphorically) is that we are
directly realizing a Oneness with ultimate Reality itself—a direct
experience of being one with the Divine, one with Spirit, one with our own
highest and deepest Ground of Being, one with the Great Perfection.
Waking Up directly increases the territory of your self by moving you
through various dimensions of increasing wholeness until you reach a
radical Oneness with the entire universe. But in Growing Up, you are
increasing the number of other perspectives with which you can identify in
each of those dimensions. If Waking Up goes from gross to subtle to causal
to turiya to nondual, Growing Up goes from egocentric to ethnocentric to
worldcentric to integral. They clearly are not the same, and you definitely
should want both.
The Growing Up sequence is crucial, especially since every major
religion in the world leaves it out, not to mention virtually all other

disciplines as well. And if a religion is at, for example, an ethnocentric
stage of development, then it will tend to think that its group, and only its
group, has the one true religion and the one true God. It will be stuck at that
absolutistic stage of development. And almost all the world’s great religions
came into their basic form when they were at this amber ethnocentric stage
of growth, so they originally thought that they, and they alone, had the one
true path and the one true God. As we saw, it wasn’t until Vatican II that the
Catholic Church itself finally admitted that salvation could be had by other
religions. This is why so many of the world’s religions remain, to this day,
the premier source of human conflict, discord, and suffering, not human
solidarity, unity, and love—although they claim they are. And they yet
could be!
I noted earlier that almost every major terrorist act in the past halfcentury has come from a (fundamentalist) religious group at the amber
mythic-ethnocentric stage of development. In fact, fundamentalist religion
at this ethnocentric stage is the single greatest source of terrorist activity in
the world today—and, of course, it’s all done in the name of the love of
God. Whether they are Southern Baptists blowing up abortion clinics in the
South, or Catholics and Protestants at each other’s throats in Northern
Ireland, or Hamas and Hezbollah in Palestine, or Pakistani Muslims and
Indian Hindus in border warfare in north India, or al-Qaeda and Isis Islamic
extremists, or white supremacists in Charlottesville, or Antifa in Berkeley—
they are, in effect, ethnocentric fundamentalist religious groups convinced
that they, and they alone, have the one true pipeline to God (or an absolute
Truth or ultimate concern).
Humanity will never reach a harmonious worldwide peace and
solidarity unless and until our religious organizations move up at least to the
worldcentric (orange or higher) stages of their own spiritual development
and make that understanding clearly available to all their followers. This
conveyor belt would almost certainly be the single greatest change in world
religions since their conception. And best of all, this is a change we can
introduce in our own lives, right here, right now, thus making a Religion of
Tomorrow something that we can begin practicing immediately today.

However, although such a Religion of Tomorrow would give us an
access to both Waking Up and Growing Up, there is one area of a Big
Wholeness that it would not be able to give us. I call this “Cleaning Up,” an
approach that put us in touch with the broken, fragmented, or repressed
areas of our own mind and being, and that therefore gives us access to the
Wholeness of our own healed and reunified mind. As we keep seeing, when
it comes to all 5 areas of a Big Wholeness, knowing any one area will tell
us little to nothing about any of the other areas. We’ve already seen that this
is true of Waking Up and Growing Up—learning about one tells us nothing
about the other. Nonetheless, each of them can still be accessed quite easily
and fully—if we know where to look. The same is true of Cleaning Up.
This is a therapeutic approach to a form of Wholeness that we can easily
practice and access today, right here and right now, if we but know where to
look.
Shall we give it a try?
OceanofPDF.com

10
Cleaning Up and Shadow Therapy
Let me remind you that we are in search of a Big Wholeness. This Big
Wholeness includes a series of very real, if smaller, types of Wholeness:
Waking Up, Growing Up, Opening Up, Cleaning Up, and Showing Up. I
think that you’ve seen enough to know that these smaller areas do indeed
represent very real types of Wholeness and that the Wholeness of one area
won’t give you the Wholeness of another; therefore we need to consciously
include all of these areas if we want anything like a truly holistic Big
Wholeness.
In this chapter, I want to focus on the process of Cleaning Up and how it
can genuinely help you to integrate and include your shadow material (that
is, unconscious and split-off elements of yourself), thus providing you with
a true Wholeness with your own real and total individual being.
Start by taking one of the most historically profound and significant
discoveries about human nature that has been made during the modern era
—during just the past few hundred years: the nature of the psychodynamic
unconscious, the nature of repression, the nature of the shadow, and the
various therapies to address, and even heal, those dysfunctions (the sum
total of which we call “Cleaning Up”). This healing itself genuinely helps
us to discover a new type of Wholeness—the wholeness that results when
the reduced, fragmented, and repressed mind is returned to its normal,
larger, and more healthy state.

It’s generally acknowledged that Sigmund Freud and his colleagues
dramatically and profoundly changed the way that we look at human nature
itself. It’s said that along with Darwin’s notion of evolution and
Copernicus’s idea of the heliocentric view, Freud’s ideas are one of the
three most profound changes that have ever occurred in how we view
human nature.
Freud’s ideas refer to a process that we call neither Waking Up nor
Growing Up but Cleaning Up. Freud’s view of psychoanalysis (his version
of Cleaning Up) is based on the idea that when individuals repress or seal
off various emotions and mental impulses, this repression causes various
types of mental illness. Psychoanalysis aims to reunite the mind with this
repressed shadow material and produce a Whole and healthy psyche.
We’re not talking just about negative or defiled emotions. Almost all of
the Great Religions have teachings on defiled emotions—that is, emotions
that are harmful to human beings and that contribute to suffering and
fragmentation—and ways to replace those defiled emotions with healthier,
more wholesome, more joyous emotional states. But with Cleaning Up, we
are talking about emotions that are actually repressed, emotions (or any
mental qualities) that are deliberately denied, pathologically dissociated,
disowned, and defensively sealed off and split off from the rest of the
psyche (which fragments the true wholeness of the mind, a wholeness that
the process of Cleaning Up was created in order to help restore). The active
repression of emotions—which then creates, in their unconscious forms,
painful neuroses and even psychoses—was, indeed, a relatively recent
discovery, associated particularly, of course, with Sigmund Freud and his
original inner circle, all of whom were truly geniuses—Carl Jung, Alfred
Adler, Otto Rank, and Sándor Ferenczi. This discovery subsequently
exploded into the work of thousands of researchers around the world, a
discovery that would change, as we said, the most basic way that we view
human nature itself.
Freud is credited with introducing (although there were several
forerunners) the fundamental idea that the human mind, because of its
evolutionary past, has an extensive area that itself is quite primitive but still

active. We humans (as a conscious “ego”) can seal off and repress various
conscious elements and hence push them into this primitive unconscious
region (the “id”—which is Latin for “it,” or 3rd-person realities or “its” in
general). These “shadow” elements can then create various disturbing
emotional and mental illnesses (neuroses and psychoses), and
psychoanalysis aims to bring these unconscious “id” elements back into a
healed state of oneness with “ego” consciousness. When Freud was asked to
summarize what his new technique of psychoanalysis did, he famously said,
“Where id was, there ego shall be.” That’s a perfect summary.
However, Freud never actually said that. Most people don’t know that
Freud never once used the words ego or id. His official translator, James
Strachey, added those words, which are Latin, because he thought they
made Freud sound more scientific. The “ego” was the mostly conscious
sense of self that we have (or our “I”), and the “id” was this mostly
unconscious primitive material that was causing all the problems (an “it”).
But Freud really never used those Latin terms. He used the German
pronouns that are more accurately translated into English as “the I” and “the
it.” So Freud would not say, “Derivatives of the id can negatively impact
the ego,” although that is how Strachey would have translated it. A more
accurate translation of something he said would be “Derivatives of the it
can negatively impact the I.” He wrote and spoke just like that (in German).
And that’s what he was actually doing. He was looking at how we take
material that belongs to the self or the “I”—some feeling or emotion, some
thought or impulse, some trait or quality—and we deny that it’s ours; we
push it out of our awareness, we disavow and disown it. When we do that,
we convert it from a quality that is part of the “I,” part of my conscious self,
and instead make it appear like it is not mine, like it is other, like it is an
“it.” So instead of being responsible for my own anger, my greed, or my
jealousy, I disown it and say, “The anger, ‘it’ just overcame me,” or “This
greed, I don’t know where ‘it’ came from,” or “I don’t know how to control
‘it,’ this jealousy.” To fix this, we have to take that “it” back and make it
part of the “I,” part of the self. So what Freud actually said was not “Where

id was, there ego shall be.” He said, “Where it was, there I shall become.”
That was truly brilliant; that really summarized psychoanalysis.
Freud gave a really wonderful analysis of disowning or repressing some
trait. The “ego” and the “id” are just some weird Latin names and are really
abstract; but the “I” and the “it” are immediate and very real realities—we
all have some sense of an “I” as well as many areas of the mind that are
uncontrollable and just appear as an “it.” We create shadow material by
taking some “I” elements and disowning them as an alien “it.” We deny it,
we disavow it, we disown it, we split it off from our conscious self, and
then it appears as if it belongs not to my own 1st person or “I” but to some
3rd person—him, her, or it. But it’s actually mine.
A perfect example of this, which I often use, is a real research project,
where zealous antihomosexual crusaders—men who had spent much of
their lives actively fighting against laws that protect gay people—were
shown images of homosexual pornography (that is, actual gay sexual
erotica), and these antigay crusaders demonstrated much more sexual
arousal than the average straight male did. In other words, these crusaders
themselves had homosexual desires, but they repressed those desires as
shadow elements, projected that shadow material onto gay men, and then
they tried to get rid of their own shadows by getting rid of gay men. This is
classic shadow projection—and the shadowboxing that results.
In order to cure the problem, we have to take that “it” back and re-own
it, reintegrate it, return it to the self, to the “I,” and thus restore the
psychological wholeness that we lost when we repressed this shadow
material. “Where it was, there I shall become.” And every time we do this,
we are creating a greater mental Wholeness, which expands our self-sense
from a narrow persona that is split from our shadows to a more complete,
accurate, and whole psyche. Welcome to the Wholeness of Cleaning Up!
You can see why this is important, even from the research with
antihomosexuals. Most homophobia is generated by shadow projections.
Men who have not come to some sort of peace and acceptance about their
own homosexual impulses will often project those impulses as shadow
material and then hate gay men the way they originally hated their own

shadows. If the Great Religions had been aware of the existence of
repressed shadow material and the enormous amount of hatred, anger, and
jealousy that it created, they would have had much more love and
compassion than they did. In general, simply having ways to recognize and
heal our own shadows gives us a profoundly important tool for increasing
our own understanding, growth, and Wholeness.
All of us have shadows—and this includes our spiritual teachers. And
further, if severe, our shadow issues can completely derail both Growing Up
and Waking Up. Therefore, the understanding and techniques of Cleaning
Up will almost certainly be included in any genuine and legitimate Religion
of Tomorrow—not to mention any of today’s other growth processes.
Healing emotional dysfunctions—the process of Cleaning Up—is very
different from both Waking Up and Growing Up. For one thing, all three of
these processes are relatively independent of each other. You can be highly
advanced in one and lagging behind in the other two, and in any
combination. Solving problems in one area won’t necessarily solve any
problems in the others. That is why you can have somebody who is highly
enlightened—with a profound Waking Up—yet very emotionally and
socially immature (low in Growing Up) and also strongly riddled with
major neuroses and shadow elements (poor in Cleaning Up). And
meditation itself will not necessarily clear up shadow elements, just like it
won’t necessarily help with Growing Up; in fact, in some cases it can make
them worse.
Thus, any genuine Big Wholeness will almost certainly include not only
Waking Up but also Growing Up and Cleaning Up (and, as we’ll see, also
Opening Up and Showing Up). And this is very likely something that you
would want to include in your own Integral Spirituality or your own
Integral Life Practice. I will explain exactly how to do this as we go
forward, using a process of Cleaning Up that I refer to as the “3-2-1
process.” This 3-2-1 process is a tool you can use to attain the Wholeness of
your own healthy psyche. And you will get a very good idea of some major
areas of your life that need to be taken into account for your own life
journey, especially if you value anything like “holistic.”

Just as human beings have been Growing Up to some degree since day
one—even though they didn’t consciously understand the details of that
process—so individuals have been suffering shadow issues from day one—
even if they didn’t understand its details well. And this goes for the Great
Religions too. As we said, most of them have some sort of understanding of
“defiled” emotions, or “unhealthy” emotions, or “sinful” emotions, and how
to deal with them. But none of them have a sophisticated understanding of
repressed emotions, or psychodynamically dissociated emotions—in short,
shadow material.
Although Cleaning Up and Growing Up are two very different
processes, I have found that each major stage of Growing Up (as well as
most states of Waking Up) can produce its own types of shadow material.
Thus, corresponding to the spectrum of levels of development (in both
Growing Up and Waking Up), there is a spectrum of shadow elements.
There are crimson shadows, red shadows, amber shadows, orange shadows,
green shadows, and turquoise shadows, along with shadows of each of the
major stages of Waking Up. In this chapter, I’ll focus on shadows from
Growing Up, since few people are engaged in Waking Up; but the
principles are the same in both. Each level of development has a different
structure, contents, and tools of awareness, and therefore uses its own
elements to create different defense mechanisms, as well as provides the
material that will become the shadow material of that level itself.
So, if you really want to work on shadow material and a full Cleaning
Up process, you’ll want to look at each of these levels of shadow material
and adjust the therapeutic process to specifically address each of them, with
their own fine differences and nuances and the different defense
mechanisms involved at each level. But—the good news—there are also
some very general practices that work with shadow material no matter what
level it comes from. I will now give a very general overview of shadow
material and what causes it—how it is created—so that you’ll be familiar
with the overall process itself; and then I will present a very general
technique—the 3-2-1 process—that works with virtually all types of
shadow material. I will explain this technique, and then I will directly apply

it and also give you the tools to continue applying it in your life, if you
want.
THE SHIFTING SELF-BOUNDARY
One of the central keys to understanding defense mechanisms in general—
and thus to understanding how shadow material is created—is that the selfboundary (that is, the line between what we feel to be our “self” and what
we feel to be “not-self” or “other”) is incredibly plastic. It shifts easily, and
development itself is a continuous redrawing of the self-boundary to
include more and more territory. We’ve already seen one example of this:
development goes from egocentric to ethnocentric to worldcentric to
integral—that is, the self shifts from an identity with just itself, to an
identity with just an ethnocentric group, to all groups worldcentrically, to a
global village. That’s an extraordinary self-boundary expansion. And it can
continue to expand, shifting from all humans to all life forms, a type of
ecological Web-of-Life systems identity (a shift from worldcentric to
integral Kosmocentric). And in Waking Up, it can expand even further to a
complete Oneness with the entire universe, a so-called Kosmic
consciousness or ultimate Unity consciousness.
So we can see how plastic that self-boundary is. And at any one of those
stages of the expansion of the self-sense—including any of the 6 or so
major stages of Growing Up—any aspect, component, or element of the self
at that stage can be repressed, or denied and disowned, split off and
dissociated. When this happens, that disowned self-material becomes
shadow—it is banished to the repressed unconscious, where it is no longer
experienced as part of the self or “I” but as part of the not-self—it is
experienced as alien, as other, as not-me, as an “it.” And typically such
shadow material is then projected onto other people, things, or objects. I no
longer have any of that nasty shadow material, but my neighbor, boss or
spouse is loaded with it! I know somebody has a lot of this shadow material,
but since it can’t be me, it must be somebody else—anybody else, just not
me. Shadow.

We already gave an obvious example of this, the zealous
antihomosexual crusaders, who, when shown images of homosexual
pornography, had much more sexual arousal than the average straight male
did. They themselves had a significant amount of homosexual desires, but
they repressed those desires as shadow elements and then projected that
shadow material onto gay men, and then they tried to get rid of their gay
shadows by getting rid of gay men. This is indeed classic shadow projection
and the shadowboxing that results.
But here’s the hard part—the really hard part. It’s not just that if you
project your shadow material, then you will end up being threatened by—
and dramatically overreact to—anybody or anything onto which you project
your shadow. It’s much worse than that. It’s that anybody or anything that
you emotionally overreact to—that you exaggeratedly despise, hate, or
loathe—is almost always your own shadow material that has been
projected. And that makes the entire concept very hard to accept. Do you
mean that the stuff out there that I hate is really part of me?
Well, yes. Let’s say that you start working for a company and find that
you can’t help it, you just hate your new boss because he is so unbelievably
controlling. Now very likely, not everybody has this intense emotional
reaction to the boss; why are you one of the ones who do? Isn’t it very
possible that you yourself have a fair amount of controlling tendencies, and
yet you despise those qualities, and disowning and pushing them away from
yourself, you end up projecting them onto your boss and thus despise your
boss? If you were really comfortable with your own controlling tendencies,
you would be comfortable with your boss. But no, you must have first
enormously disliked and thus dissociated and disowned these qualities in
yourself, and then having projected them onto your new boss, you now
despise and loathe him. And notice, he might himself be quite controlling—
but only if you despise this tendency in yourself will you despise it in him.
And because you have projected your own controlling tendencies onto him,
he has a double dose of controlling qualities—he has all his own, but now
he has all yours, too—and it’s that double dose that is driving you crazy.

So welcome to the very simple, almost foolproof, way of discovering
what your own unconscious really contains—you don’t need a complicated
test or a consultation with an expert. Those things that merely inform you
about the world are likely not your shadow material; but those things that
upset you, that greatly annoy you, that you truly despise are almost
certainly your own shadow material. And this, as I said, is a hard
realization, because it means that all of those things in the world that you
most loathe, despise, and find despicable are most likely qualities that you
yourselves possess but have denied, disowned, and projected. That’s not an
easy realization, is it? (It’s especially not easy for social justice activists.
“I’m not racist; they are.” Really? Try again….)
What did you think was in your unconscious? A bunch of angels,
sweetness and light, sugar and spice? No, it contains the things that you
hate about yourself, things that you judge most harshly, things that you
simply cannot stand. Those are the things that are actually in your
unconscious, and they are in your unconscious because you despise them,
you cannot stand to have them in your own awareness, so you shove them
into the basement. That’s how they became shadow elements in the first
place.
You can also completely lose track of incredibly positive things about
your self—your beauty, goodness, strength, and virtue—and project those
onto other people as well—the so-called golden shadow. You then spend
your time not shadowboxing but shadow hugging, enormously admiring all
those superheroes around you who are so amazing.
Although both are very common, right now we’re focusing on the
negative shadows because they are usually the most easily recognized
forms. You push those out of your self-sense by simply moving them to the
other side of your self-boundary, where they appear to belong not to you but
to the “other.” Then all you have to do is find an appropriate other (or
“hook”) onto which you can hang (or totally project) the hated quality,
which will usually be somebody or something that already has a good deal
of the hated quality. The antihomosexual zealots, after all, had to find real
gay men to despise and protest.

Thus, for that little narcissist in you that is constantly self-aggrandizing,
dominating, and controlling people—Donald Trump makes a perfect hook,
and onto that admittedly clinical narcissist goes your own bit of selfaggrandizement. Since yours is the one you first loathed and deeply
despised, you will find people like Trump to be not just morally wrong but
deeply disturbing and upsetting. You might have ongoing nightmares about
them, scour the newspapers for indications of their activities, join political
organizations that seek to eradicate them, and otherwise dedicate a good
amount of your time to shadowboxing. Now that might be a very good
thing for the world, to be working like that to get rid of somebody like
Trump. But if he really is a hook for some of your own deepest projections,
you can see how utterly clever defense mechanisms are—they know you
perfectly because they are, after all, basically you. So they know exactly
what irritates you most, what you most want to deny, and then they simply
shuffle the boundaries of the level from which these despised qualities
originate, push the hated qualities on the other side of your self-boundary,
and you end up denying them, projecting them, and shadowboxing them.
Many media reporters demonstrated this hatred of Trump almost daily,
reporting on all his activities without mentioning a single positive thing,
and it became obvious to many people that if these reporters had indeed
discovered Trump’s deep narcissism, they were themselves displaying an
equally deep, self-generated, pathological hatred of the man. But virtually
all the Democrats—or approximately half the population of the United
States—had gone mad and loathed every single thing the man did, and I
mean absolutely every single thing. Well, you have to admit, whether you
admired Trump or not, he was an excellent hook onto which to project one’s
own narcissistic and self-aggrandizing shadow. Virtually every sentence out
of his mouth was about how something he was involved in was the
“greatest thing in history,” the “best best results anybody’s ever gotten,” the
“highest scores we’ve ever seen,” or “I got the highest ratings on that job
that anybody thought was possible.” I used to somewhat eagerly watch him
just to see how somebody could be so unrelentingly narcissistic—I mean,

demonstrating clinical levels of pathological narcissism—it was just
stunning.
But, love him or hate him, Trump gave to the United States four years
of the most narcissistic hook for national projections that any president has
ever offered. Almost anything he did invited projections. And since virtually
everything he said was antigreen or anti-political correctness, he was
especially despised by green (the media, academia, entertainment). The
media, in particular, dedicated itself to reporting only negative news about
Trump. There were even objective studies done about this. The Los Angeles
Times, for instance, reported on one of these studies, which found that, for
the last five presidents (both Republican and Democrat), the media had
used a positive tone in reporting about them an average of 70 percent of the
time; in contrast, the media used a positive tone with Trump only 12 percent
of the time. This green media backlash turned the New York Times into a
gossip rag, with its front page carrying not news but editorial opinions (all
of them, of course, anti-Trump). This contra-Trump attitude contributed
enormously to a great increase in national polarization and a “woke” green
leading edge of culture. So, to ask the obvious, if leading, question: which
part of Trump did you hate the most?
Trump is, admittedly, a bit of an extreme case, although he does
demonstrate how shadow projections can catch hold at a national level.
(The shadow material that was most often projected onto Trump included
narcissism, fascism and Nazism, sexism, racism, and xenophobia.) The
United States became so intensely polarized because the projections
themselves were so big and intense (because the hook was so big and
intense). Trump had such an exaggerated, narcissistic personality that the
people who disliked him really disliked him. This dislike was so extreme
that it was often called “Trump derangement syndrome” (TDS). Whatever
Trump was in favor of doing, those with TDS were massively against it.
This is why the Democrats went mad. Trump was such a huge monster that
they were allowed to react in equally huge ways, no matter how insane
these ways were. This is why otherwise very level-headed people in this
country started supporting moves that were clearly exaggerated to insane

proportions and were something that they would never have previously
engaged in. They would adopt these outrageous positions simply because
they were the opposite of something that Trump wanted. For example, if
previously they were in favor of allowing all undocumented immigrants
(sometimes referred to as “illegal aliens”) to be given U.S. citizenship—
which was already a quite controversial position—under Trump, they came
very close to wanting fully open borders altogether (which was clearly and
obviously something Trump did not want at all). This exaggeration went for
protesters, too, who began adding burning and looting to their previously
less aggressive and more nonviolent approaches. Shadowboxing became
shadow burning.
But in your own case, your shadow material is probably less huge. It’s
more likely to be some bit of your own envy, anger, jealousy, greed, sexual
desire, controlling tendencies, or adulterous impulses. But the same process
will occur. For example, when you find somebody to project your own
adulterous impulses onto—say, your partner—they will seem to possess the
projected trait and you will seem to be completely lacking in it. Then you
will begin to uncontrollably suspect your partner of wanting to fool around.
You might even accuse them of doing so. Even if they deny it, if you keep
suspecting and accusing them of it, this might actually contribute to them
being unfaithful, or at least thinking really hard about it. (“My partner is
already punishing me for doing this, I might as well really do it.”) This
underscores another deeply irritating aspect of the way defense mechanisms
work: defense mechanisms bring about that which they are meant to ward
off—which is another reason they just don’t work well. Most arguments
and fights between partners come from one or both of them projecting some
shadow material onto the other and then shadowboxing away. The negative
trait that one partner sees “out there” is something that actually belongs to
them.
So this is the incredibly hard lesson of shadow research and why it’s so
unbelievably important to include some form of Cleaning Up in any path of
self-understanding: the things that we most despise in the world are exactly
the things that we possess and most despise in ourselves. This is so hard

because we are convinced that we have none of those horrid traits; we’re
free of them (just as we were with Trump’s). Of course, the reason that we
think we’re completely free of this hated quality is that we’ve denied,
disowned, and projected all ours. We’re not really free of it; we’ve simply
repressed it. And so out it goes into the world, where we loathe and despise
this quality with a self-righteous indignation and hatred that we think is
altogether morally justified, because this quality is inherently so utterly evil.
As the Pogo comic strip used to say, “We have met the enemy, and it is us.”
And yes, watch for golden shadows too. We can completely lose track
of the truly positive and admirable qualities in ourselves—our compassion,
strength, shining brilliance, beauty. We project them onto other people and
then see people everywhere who seem to be real heroes, at least compared
to the wretched mess that we are. Today, the most commonly stated selforientation is, as Whitney Houston sings, “The greatest love of all is the
love I have for me.” But not many people actually feel that, because they’re
too busy projecting all their lovableness onto others, leaving them with the
feeling that deep down they are wretched and worthless souls. They’re not
shadowboxing with others, they’re shadow hugging them. There are indeed
people in the world who are truly deserving of admiration; just don’t forget
the parts of you that also are.
We definitely see this positive projection in almost all cases of what is
called “romantic love,” which is noted for its intense, obsessive, highly
driven nature. In intense romantic love, one (or both) of the partners project
some deeply positive aspect of themselves onto their lover, and are then
excessively attracted to them, which is an attempt to re-own their own
projected material—a case of real shadow hugging. They project a good
deal of their own lovableness, beauty, brilliance, kindness, self-esteem, or
strength, and see all of it fully existing in their loved one—which throws
their own being into an overpowering desire to regain that quality, resulting
in an intense energy of overwhelming, overworked, obsessive love. They
can’t sleep, can’t eat, can’t think. Nothing goes through their minds except
thoughts of their totally beloved partner, who is overflowing with the
qualities that have been projected onto them. (Men often project their own

appeal, attractiveness, or beauty onto women, and women often project
their own power, resilience, or strength onto men—but it really can be any
deeply positive trait or quality.) Again, their lover might already have, and
probably does have, a large amount of the quality that is being projected
onto them, which is what invites and leads them into such an intense
projection in the first place. But when such a person loses track of their own
positive quality and projects it onto somebody else who already has a great
deal of it, the double dose of that quality drives them into an intensely
overinflated love for the person. That is, romantic love is so totally
overinflated because the beloved seems to have a double dose of some
positive quality—the normal amount of some positive quality plus the extra
quality that is being projected onto them. That double dose of lovableness
drives the person in love into an incredibly overexcited romantic love.
Precisely because it’s a double dose of love—which doesn’t exist
anywhere in the “real” world—this romantic love usually wears off within a
year, or sometimes much sooner. Even if the partner who is doing the
projecting doesn’t fully re-own the projected shadow material, they will
start to realize that no human being—including their partner—can be as
great as they once imagined. Nobody can be that beautiful, that brilliant, or
that strong as they imagined their partner was.
This realization often comes when the two lovers begin to live together
and are exposed to the full human-beingness of their partner—they eat, go
to the bathroom, apply makeup, and so on—going through all of the
processes that a normal human being goes through and are not the
superidealized version of a human being that they had previously been
imagined to be. (This is why almost all love novels end precisely at the
point that the two lovers finally come together—the romantic and projected
lovableness that’s driven the novel so far cannot withstand the lovers
actually living together or being together full-time; it’s only downhill from
there. Imagine Romeo and Juliet actually moving in together, and in the
next scene Juliet wakes up with curlers in her hair and cold cream all over
her face. How’s Romeo going to like that? “Romeo, Romeo, wherefore art
thou, Romeo?” “I’m up here, throwing up.”)

Romantic love can die very abruptly and with a great deal of
disappointment or even anger. But often it can be replaced with a less
intense love, and sometimes with an enduring friendship. But in either case,
shadow projection has come to an end. (If they haven’t re-owned their
shadow, they will likely begin a series of affairs, still pursuing their shadow
and still shadow hugging away, which will generally continue until they
really do re-own their shadow—or, if married, until they get caught.)
If they have re-owned their shadow, their own self-sense grows, because
it has taken back some aspect of itself that was previously split off and
projected, which decreased the size of their self. Such diminishment moves
in the opposite direction of a genuine evolution, which always moves
toward increasing and expanding awareness, self-identity, and thus the size
of the self. In other words, in the process of awakening to a genuinely true
reality, Waking Up, Growing Up, and Cleaning Up are constantly working
in the direction of evolving and expanding our awareness, increasing the
size of our self-sense, and stretching from an identity with just our isolated
individual organism to a Supreme Identity with the entire Kosmos, a
oneness with absolutely everything that is arising moment to moment—a
stunning increase in the real size of our self.
And the creation of shadow material is a major process that completely
works against that evolution, that actually diminishes self-identity and
narrows consciousness. And a real problem with shadow material is that the
process of Cleaning Up shadow material is not at all the same as that of
Waking Up or Growing Up, and the techniques that work for either of those
processes have no real impact on shadow material. And so a core addition
to any self-transformation process is to include Cleaning Up with both
Waking Up and Growing Up—and this is something that any genuine
process of working to awaken a Big Wholeness will do.
As we just saw, the problem with all defense mechanisms is that they
tend to bring about exactly what they were meant to ward off. Which is to
say, defense mechanisms don’t really work. This is why they leave, in their
place, not just a blank space (which they would leave if they succeeded in
actually deleting and projecting the offensive material); what they actually

leave is a painful neurotic or even psychotic symptom—and these
symptoms are always symbols of the repressed shadow material. This is
why, if you know how to interpret symptoms correctly, they will tell you
exactly what shadow material is hidden within them. So simply look
around: what do you exaggeratedly most hate, and most love, in this world?
This is the world of your shadow. And this is the world that all of us will
have to re-own if we want to truly be “one with everything.”
The idea that we have to take back our shadow material is not all bad
news. There is, after all, the golden shadow. You can repress and project
anything across the spectrum from very positive to very negative—and thus
end up either shadow hugging or shadowboxing. When you project negative
and despised material—anger, power drives, controlling tendencies,
dominating qualities—you tend to loathe and despise those onto whom you
project those qualities. But, as we saw, it is also quite common to lose track
of your truly positive and admirable qualities—your courage, beauty, talent,
kindness, lovableness, or moral idealism—and when you project them, you
usually end up hero-worshiping, falling into romantic love, or getting
caught in slobbering overadmiration.
In either case, negative or positive, we need to re-own and reintegrate
the disowned and repressed material, converting it from an “other” (or an
“it”) to a re-owned aspect of one’s own self (or “I”)—“Where it was, there I
shall become”—hence making the self a little bit bigger, and the not-self a
little bit smaller, thus heading in the direction of evolution itself.
So the path of Cleaning Up lies before us. I recommend using the 3-2-1
therapeutic shadow-work exercise to start taking back your own shadow
and start Cleaning Up the mess. So let’s look at this practice, which is a
process that can, if you wish, help incorporate a truly effective Cleaning Up
of the shadow material in your life.
THE 3-2-1 PROCESS
In The Religion of Tomorrow, I run through twelve of the most central
structure-stages of Growing Up (including 1st, 2nd, and 3rd tier) and point

out the types of shadow material—negative and positive—that are most
common at each stage. In other words, there are a dozen levels of shadow
material, all of which are very real and most of which are commonplace. It
is very important to be aware of these levels of shadow material because the
practices of Cleaning Up are distinctly different from the practices of both
Waking Up and Growing Up. (But don’t worry; we’ll be working with the
3-2-1 process, which works with shadow elements at all of those levels, and
thus is a great simplification. It’s still crucially important that you work
with your own shadow, but this will greatly simplify things.) If you’re in a
self-realization program, you are pretty much on your own in figuring out
these shadow problems because it’s very likely that the self-realization
program will tell you nothing about them. But they are indeed real
problems, and they are very, very common, and few self-realization or
growth systems take them into account. It is almost certain that you already
have one or more of these pathologies and shadow issues because
everybody does, including spiritual teachers. If you don’t know how to spot
these shadows, then they will simply continue to plague you, because,
again, nothing in either Growing Up or Waking Up will directly help you
Clean Up. And if the shadow issues are bad, they can completely derail
your progress in both Growing Up and Waking Up. Plus there’s the simple
fact that they hurt, they cause enormous suffering, and you want to be able
to effectively address these issues whenever they arise.
Instead of going through every level of development and its possible
shadow problems—again, please see The Religion of Tomorrow if you want
that kind of detail—we are going to go over a very general type of
therapeutic process that works for almost every major shadow issue. There
are, of course, specific practices for each type of shadow, but this process
has a therapeutic effect on all of them. I call it “the 3-2-1 process.”
It gets its name from the very mechanism that underlies the formation of
a great deal of shadow material—namely, the process of dissociating,
denying, and repressing shadow elements—in other words, the general form
of most defense mechanisms. If you look closely at the perspectives that
consciousness takes with each of the steps in the process of creating shadow

material, you find that the shadow generally starts as a 1st-person trait. (For
those of you who are a little rusty on grammar, “1st person” means “the
person speaking”—I; “2nd person” means “the person being spoken to”—
you; and “3rd person” means “the person or thing being spoken about”—
he, she, it.)
So, as I was saying, the shadow generally starts as a 1st-person trait,
something that is fully part of the individual’s conscious self, the central
and core self-identity at whatever stage—it’s an “I” or a “me” or a
“mine”—me and my desire, my anger, my self-controlling tendencies. Then
there is some sort of dissociative activity—some sort of negative judgment,
denial, disowning, disavowing, or repressing—and the shadow material is
isolated, avoided, and pushed against as it is denied and disowned. This
repressive pushing against moves the shadow material from being a 1stperson quality to being a 2nd-person quality. That is, it is no longer an “I”
or “me” or “mine”; it now belongs to something that is “not-me,” that is
“other,” as if it were actually a different person right inside my psyche—a
“you.” It becomes a 2nd-person reality, often called a “subpersonality”
because it is indeed like another person, a subject, included within the larger
personality. It might do some damage from there, because this can already
be a pathological fragmenting, but often this degree of repression is not
enough, because you can still be aware of a 2nd-person entity and the nasty
characteristics that they contain (it often appears as a “you” in your own
internal dialogue). So you push it even further, into a 3rd-person reality,
which means that it gets treated as a completely separate “it”—this is
Freud’s “id”; that is, “it.” And that is something that can actually be shoved
on the other side of the body-boundary entirely, so this “it” belongs to some
3rd-person reality out there—it belongs to “him,” “her,” or “them.” In any
case, in my own being, this 3rd-person shadow remains as a totally alien
“it,” which is now completely disguised as a symptom that seems to be a
totally foreign thing or an “it” beyond my control, and it is usually
described in those 3rd-person terms: “The anxiety, it is stronger than me”;
“The depression, it just comes over me”; “This obsession, I can’t control
it.” These symptoms make no sense to me at all; they’re “all Greek to me.”

So this shadow material has gone from 1st-person to 2nd-person to 3rdperson—from “I” to “you” to “it.” The 3-2-1 therapeutic technique simply
reverses that process. Since almost all shadow material—no matter what
level—goes through this 1-2-3 process in its creation, reversing that process
—the 3-2-1 practice—works with shadow material regardless of which
level it comes from. Each shadow level will still have its own specific
defense mechanisms, its own cognitive tools, its own drives and desires,
and each of those can be dealt with specifically. But virtually all of them go
through this general 1-2-3 process during their creation, and reversing that
process—the 3-2-1 practice—will therefore work in a significant way with
pretty much any shadow material.[1]
PRACTICING THE 3-2-1 PROCESS
As for a typical shadow issue, let me give an example that I often use, since
it’s very simple. Let’s say that you have a significant amount of anger, and
yet, for some reason, this anger becomes taboo for you—it might be due to
your upbringing or various traumatic experiences in your childhood, or it
might be due to the influence of friends and peers, or perhaps the influence
of a religious belief that you have. Your self-system, in the translative
processes that it uses to organize its world, will start to interpret its world
with a negative judgment about anger, which, if significant, will create an
operation that whenever it detects anger, will push it through the 1-2-3
process of dissociation. You will start to actively disown your anger in an
attempt to get rid of it. Every time anger arises, you will shove it on the
other side of your self-boundary, making it appear as “other,” and hence
removing yourself from any guilt or shame about you yourself possessing
this quality.
Of course, this anger is still yours—it’s still in reality a 1st-person trait
—but now you are pretending that it is not you, and you are actually
perceiving it that way. So you convert it from a 1st-person “I” or “mine” to
a 2nd-person “you” or “yours,” as if it were another little personality in
your psyche. That might be enough, but since that subpersonality is

constantly yacking in your ear (as a subconscious voice in your own
internal dialogue) about how you should notice it (it is, after all, a 2ndperson subpersonality), you will likely go one step further and toss it out
completely—you will shove the shadow material totally outside of your
system and thus perceive it as belonging to somebody or something else.
You’ve now managed to completely convert this material from a 1st-person
“I” to a 3rd-person “it” (or “him,” “her,” or “them”—“I’m not angry; they
are”). Whenever anger arises in you, you will not see it as your own anger;
rather it’s disowned, denied, dissociated. But since you know somebody
definitely has a lot of anger, and since it clearly cannot be you, it has to be
somebody else—anybody else—and so you look around for a person, thing,
or group onto which to project your anger. It’s no longer a 1st-person anger,
it’s now a 3rd-person anger—it belongs to him, her, them, or it.
Once they have your anger, that anger will be aimed at you, because you
are, after all, its real source and owner. Thus for no reason that you can tell,
the 3rd person onto whom you’ve projected this anger will start to seem to
be very angry at you. Normally, if somebody just got mad at you for no
reason, you might get angry right back at them, but now you can’t, because
you’ve denied this anger; you are not allowed to feel anger. Since you can’t
feel any anger yourself, you very likely will feel something like fear or
anxiety instead, with all of this negative hostility aimed at you. Fear of, and
anxiety about, this 3rd person will arise, but this fear makes no sense to you
—you have no idea why this person is so mad at you. All you know is that
this “other” makes you extremely uncomfortable, fearful, anxious. The
reason why you are getting so anxious or fearful around this 3rd person is
that they now have a double dose of anger—they have all their own anger
plus all yours.
If you want to be cured of this dissociation, then “where it was, there I
shall become.” In other words, you need to re-own this material by turning
the 3rd-person “it” shadow back into its 1st-person “I” reality. So from 1-23, we go to 3-2-1.
Let’s say that you have projected your anger onto a gang of local
hoodlums—a local teenage gang that has a reputation for causing a lot of

trouble—a good hook for the projection of anger. Since you now lack any
substantial amount of anger yourself (or so you think), this gang now has a
double dose of anger (their anger plus all yours, and your anger has your
ear). Since the anger you project onto this gang is really yours and is really
tied to you, the gang will now seem to really be after you, to have it in for
you specifically. Now you might directly notice this and become unglued
anytime this gang gets anywhere near you. Or you might not think that this
gang is any more angry at you than a gang would normally be at anybody,
but for some reason, you start to have nightmares. Maybe you have
recurrent nightmares that you are being chased by a huge monster who is
enraged at you and keeps shouting that it’s going to kill and eat you alive.
You don’t feel anger at this monster—since you have repressed your anger
—so you feel only a great deal of fear. Consumed with fear, you spend your
time in the dream running away from this monster until it’s about to catch
and eat you, and then you wake up in a cold sweat and breathing hard.
With these particular shadow symptoms in mind, we perform the three
basic steps of 3-2-1, which are locate (and describe) it, talk to it, be it.
First, locate (and describe) it. What exactly is your issue, your problem,
your neurosis, your symptom—what is your major shadow complaint? If
you already suspected that you had projected your anger onto the local gang
and were now experiencing fear, then we could work with that. But you
probably don’t suspect that you have projected your anger onto this gang—
you probably think that the enormous terror you feel about this gang is
simply what everybody feels, so you might not even mention this as a
complaint; you think it’s normal. So we look at your complaints, and one of
your major concerns is this recurrent nightmare where you are being chased
by a monster that wants to kill you. If you were keeping a journal and
recording things that were serious problems in your life, even if you didn’t
mention the gang issue, you would almost certainly mention this nightmare,
especially if it is a recurrent one. If the same nightmare had awakened you
three or four times in a cold sweat, you would make note of it in your
journal. So we would take that nightmare as a likely shadow issue. Thus
we’ve located a major problem as being this recurrent nightmare of a

monster who wants to devour you, which awakens you in fear and a cold
sweat.
Look at that monster carefully; describe it in as much detail as you can
—all in 3rd-person “it” terms. That’s part of step 1. Really look at this
monster carefully, and describe it as completely as you can; again, in “it”
terms (“The monster looks like this; it’s this color; it’s this tall; it smells like
this; when it’s chasing me, it does this,” and so on). Really get to know this
monster, and give as complete a description of it as you can.
Step 2 is to talk to it. Start to address it as an actual 2nd person, as a
“you.” Using a technique borrowed from Gestalt Therapy, sit in a chair,
place an empty chair in front of you, and then imagine that the monster is
sitting in that empty chair. If the monster is really frightening, this will be
relatively difficult. So always pay attention to the fact that the fear you feel
in the presence of the monster is the same fear that you originally felt when
you judged the shadow material as being negative and something that you
had to get rid of. You became fearful of that material remaining yours, and
so you tossed it out. The fear you feel as the monster sits in front of you is
exactly that fear.
Begin talking with this monster as an actual 2nd-person “you.” Literally
have a conversation with it. If you don’t want to use a real chair, you can do
this in a notebook or on an iPad (or you can simply do it in your head). As
yourself, talk to the monster, and when it responds, change chairs. Start
asking it questions: Who are you? Why are you here? Why are you doing
this to me? To each question, respond as the monster, switching chairs when
you do so. Really get to know it as best you can. Go back and forth in
conversation. That’s step 2.
This is where you will start to get a real understanding of why you
repressed this material in the first place. “Why are you doing this to me?
you ask the monster. “Because you’re worthless. You can never do anything
right.” But why am I worthless? “Nothing you’ve ever done has been right.
You’re a complete mess.” As you continue talking with the monster, you’re
getting closer and closer to your original shadow material, and it will slowly
become more and more obvious to you that this material is actually your

own anger. This is where you want to be very careful, because you will start
to feel your own anger the more you talk with the monster—that is, your
own fear will start to give way to your own anger, and it’s the anger that
you want to accept and re-own.
It might also dawn on you that, for example, this monster is starting to
sound a lot like your father, who always seemed to judge you negatively no
matter what you did. And you always got mad at him, and let him know it,
too, right up until the time he totally lost his temper and punched you really
hard in the stomach, which doubled you up on the floor. And you never got
angry at him again. In fact, you never really got angry again, although you
did start having nightmares.
Now most shadow elements are not created by a onetime big trauma
like that (your father punching you really hard in the stomach) but instead
involve a series of repeated minitraumas (for example, for months or even
years, your father repeatedly told you how worthless you were). Many
shadow issues often have their genesis in something that occurred during
the early stages of Growing Up (involving the first three chakras of food,
sex, and power; or the archaic, magic, and mythic stages), between the ages
of three and twelve, and that usually means that something went wrong with
relationships with parents, siblings, teachers, or peers.[2]
At the second step of the 3-2-1 process, you repeatedly take some 3rdperson, alien shadow material and directly address it as a 2nd-person you
(thus moving it from 3rd person to 2nd person). As you continually playact
being the monster, you experience more and more of what the monster
actually is. And that monster is really angry at you. In fact, it wants to eat
you alive, it’s so enraged. The more you role-play this shadow material, the
more you will start to feel into what the shadow actually is, what it is really
made of. In this case, it is made of anger—your anger. As you try to play a
monster who really wants to eat somebody, you realize just how angry this
figure is. You’re starting to make this subject object; you’re starting to make
this shadow conscious.
As that starts to happen, you will likely feel some apprehension (some
of the original fear), combined with a genuine understanding that this

monster represents your anger, and your fear will start to clearly give way
to anger. You’ll actually feel the transformation of your fear into anger.
At this point, you may or may not have images or memories about when
and why this material was first denied, repressed, and disowned. For
example, you might remember your father hitting you in the stomach. Some
therapeutic techniques, such as psychoanalysis, think that memory recovery
is crucial; others, such as cognitive therapy, think it’s totally unnecessary.
But in either case, it is crucial that you recognize that this shadow material
—in this case, this anger—is yours. You need to feel that in your bones.
This step is, after all, the point where you begin to accept and re-own the
shadow material. At this point, you take the third and final step: from
talking to it to being it.
Thus far in the Cleaning Up process, you’ve been talking to this angry
monster as if it were another person within you who was angry; now simply
be that anger. Take it back as an “I,” “me,” “mine.” “I’m the monster; I’m
angry; I have anger; I own this anger—it’s MY anger.” Thus, you’ve
converted the dissociated and disowned anger from being a 3rd person
(when you fully described “it,” in its shadow-form, as the frightening
monster), to a 2nd person (when you talked directly to this monster as a
“you”), to its original 1st-person form (when you identify with it as “I,”
“me,” or “mine”). It’s no longer your shadow anger, it’s your own real
anger. To the extent that your nightmares were generated by this disowned
anger, when you truly re-own it, the nightmares will stop, no question. You
will also notice that the local gang doesn’t seem nearly as frightening as it
used to. So that’s the 3-2-1 process—locate it (3rd person), talk to it (2nd
person), then be it (1st person).[3]
SUMMARY
This therapeutic technique is a good example of shadow work in general,
the overall Cleaning Up process.[4] It’s especially important that we do
some Cleaning Up as we continue to Grow Up and Wake Up. As we
develop, newly emergent territory is added that we are meant to identify

with. Development and evolution, we have seen, is always to “transcend
and include,” and the transcend part means that we are going beyond the
present stage to add a new and larger stage or to add new and novel material
to our awareness, and we need to own that material responsibly—we need
to include it fully in our awareness (it is, after all, “transcend and include”).
As we grow (and transcend) from red to amber, we are adding (and
including) the larger territory of amber to our awareness; and as we grow
(and transcend) from amber to orange, we are adding (and including) the
larger territory of orange (along with amber) to our awareness, and so on at
every stage—until, at the end of Growing Up and Waking Up, we have
expanded our identity from the narrow, finite, skin-encapsulated ego to a
Supreme Identity with the entire Kosmos.
If at any one of those evolutionary stages of “transcend and include,”
we have any major problems or issues with including or assimilating that
new material, then that material will become shadow. We will fail either to
adequately transcend or to fully include, and if we have problems with the
“include” part, this new territory will be deflected out of our awareness and
into the wide world of “not-me” and “other.” Not only will we not fully
identify with and assimilate this new territory, we will replace it with a
painful series of symptoms, neuroses, pathologies, and dysfunctions. Our
self will not get bigger but smaller. It will be headed in exactly the wrong
direction, throwing more and more material out of awareness and making
ourselves less and less instead of greater and greater, which is what
evolution wants to bring about.
If we have problems with any of this newly emergent territory—the new
territory of red, amber, orange, green, or turquoise—then we contract
against it and freeze in fear. We are not moved by love but instead are
driven by fear. We self-contract in the face of this newness and toss the
novel and emergent territory out the door of our awareness, rejecting this
step closer to Wholeness and choosing instead a painful limitation and
repression. We become less than we were meant to be, and deep within our
own souls, we know this.

All in all, I think we can see that Cleaning Up does indeed offer a new
and very real type of Wholeness, helping us go from a small, fractured,
inaccurate self-image to a whole, full, and healthy psyche. Shadow issues
are so massively common and enormously problem creating in almost every
field of human activity, that it’s astonishing that there isn’t more
conventional wisdom about how to deal with them. In any event, my hope,
as usual, is that even if you disagree with the details of how I have
presented the shadow, you will clearly see that Cleaning Up shadow issues
is a truly important part of any sort of holistic search for a genuinely Big
Wholeness.
Big Wholeness includes Waking Up, Growing Up, Opening Up,
Cleaning Up, and Showing Up. So far we’ve covered Waking Up, Growing
Up, and Cleaning Up. We’ll eventually get to all of them, but coming up
next, I want to introduce Showing Up. Showing Up is another example of
striking it rich when it comes to aspects of our own being. It is also one of
the easiest ways to see the importance of an Integral approach to our reality.
Showing Up means to fully show up for all the basic dimensions and
perspectives to which human beings have genuine access. Let’s see what
that means and the enormous effect that it can have on your own life, shall
we?
OceanofPDF.com

11
Showing Up
Showing Up is not only an incredibly fundamental and important part of
any Big Wholeness, it is also one of the easiest ways to understand the
importance and significance of taking an Integral approach to our problems.
You can see this immediately in the diagrams placed in this chapter; see
figures 11.2 and 11.3 below. Let’s have a look….
THE 4 QUADRANTS
Probably one of the most common and mundane examples of Showing Up
appears as the 1st-, 2nd-, and 3rd-person pronouns found in every mature
language the world over. These pronouns represent three very different
perspectives on reality that anyone can take. The fact that these 1st-, 2nd-,
and 3rd-person pronouns are so universal and ubiquitous suggests that they
refer to very real, very important, cross-cultural realities. Here’s how these
pronouns are defined (the dimensions or perspectives included in Showing
Up): the 1st person is “the person speaking” (I, me, mine); the 2nd person is
“the person being spoken to” (you or thou); and the 3rd person is “the
person or thing being spoken about” (him, her, they, them, it, or its).
So what do these perspectives refer to? These cross-cultural realities are
as follows: (1) the subjective dimension, which is the 1st person, with
pronouns such as “I,” “me,” “mine”; (2) the relational dimension, which is
the 2nd person, with pronouns such as “you” or “thou,” and since there

needs to be a mutual understanding—or “we”—in order for a “you” to be
understood, this relational dimension is often referred to as the “you/we”
dimension, and because this involves two or more subjects, this dimension
is often called “intersubjective”;[1] (3) the individual objective dimension,
which is the singular form of the 3rd person, with the pronouns “he, “him,”
“his,” “she,” “her,” “hers,” “it,” and “its”; and (4) the collective objective
dimension, which is the plural form of the 3rd person, with the pronouns
“they,” “them,” “theirs,” and “its”—which is a systemic dimension, often
called “interobjective.” In short: the words “I,” “we,” “it,” and “its.” This is
a common example of the 4 quadrants, the four basic
dimension/perspectives that all humans have access to. I call them
“dimension/perspectives” because they are real dimensions that possess real
perspectives—thus, for example, the objective dimension possesses a
genuinely 3rd-person perspective.
I often summarize these 4 quadrants as the “Big Three,” because I often
treat the two objective quadrants (the singular “it” and the plural “its”
dimensions) as one—as the objective “it” world—so we have “I,” “we,”
and “it” as one version of the quadrants. We’ve already seen that these
fundamental dimensions ground the use of 1st-, 2nd-, and 3rd-person
pronouns. They’re such fundamental perspectives that they appear even in
the 3-2-1 process. These four (or three) perspectives are everywhere. For
example, notice that Jesus Christ spoke about God (3rd person), he spoke to
or with God (2nd person), and he spoke as God (1st person). That Trinity is
exactly the Big Three of “I,” “we,” and “it.”
For an Integral Spirituality, for a genuinely comprehensive
understanding of Spirit itself, you will definitely want to realize a full
relationship about, with, and as Spirit. You might not like the Christian
version of these three, and you certainly do not have to accept a patriarchal
Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. In other words, you want a relationship that
includes concepts about Spirit as a 3rd-person, objective, truly existing
reality (such as a Ground of All Being, a Great Chain of Being, or a Great
Web of Life); you want a relationship that includes relating to or with Spirit,
so that Spirit also embraces a 2nd-person, vibrant, relational reality (as

exemplified in Martin Buber’s beautiful writings on the I-Thou relationship;
that’s perfect Spirit in 2nd person); and most important, you want a
relationship that includes a 1st-person view as Spirit, where Spirit is seen as
your own True Self (I AMness, the great I-I, your Original Face, or what the
Nirvana Sutra calls mahatman, the “Great Self”). I call this the “1-2-3 of
Spirit”—looking at Spirit through all the quadrants to make sure we’re
Showing Up for all the important bases.
The Christian Trinity—and the three universal pronouns—are only the
barest beginning of what the quadrants cover. (I’ll go over more of them in
a moment.) In order to Show Up, you can’t leave out any of these
perspectives when it comes to your own approach to Spirit or Reality in
general—in other words, you want to Show Up for all of these major
perspectives and the very real dimensions that they disclose. If these
realities are there, why on earth would you not include them? And not only
when it comes to Spirit, but when it comes to all your life itself. Over sixty
human disciplines have been fully reinterpreted using an AQAL Integral
Framework—giving everything from Integral Business to Integral
Education to Integral Medicine to Integral Art to Integral Politics to Integral
Psychotherapy to Integral Architecture, and, yes, Integral Spirituality,
among others. Those approaches are made integral by including all 4 of
their own quadrants.
I didn’t discover the 4 quadrants by studying the universal pronouns.
Rather, I discovered them as I was preparing to write my book Sex,
Ecology, Spirituality. I had laid out various developmental schemes from a
large variety of branches of knowledge, and although there were always
intriguing similarities, they together did not fit into any obvious basic
framework. For example, the sequence quarks, atoms, molecules, cells,
organisms is obviously a nested hierarchy (or holarchy) of development,
where each stage transcends and includes its predecessor. So is Jean
Gebser’s sequence of the development of worldviews: archaic, magic,
mythic, rational, pluralistic, integral. So is Gerhard Lenski’s technoeconomic development sequence: foraging, horticultural, agrarian,
industrial, informational. All three are examples of developmental or

evolutionary holarchies. Yet none of their levels seemed to match up very
well. They seemed to be almost totally different. But surely they must be
related somehow. How do they actually fit together?
Although the solution seems very obvious today (at least if you’re
familiar with Integral Metatheory), it took me quite some time to figure it
out. Whenever I found a developmental sequence or evolutionary holarchy,
I would write it out on a sheet of paper from a legal pad and lay it on the
floor. I eventually had well over one hundred sheets of paper completely
covering the floor. So I had examples of linguistic development, stellar
development, biochemical development, numerous grades and clades of
biological evolution, stages of human development for almost every type of
intelligence, evolutionary developments of forms of government, various
technological developments, evolutionary levels of worldviews, value
systems, and cognitive developments—and on and on. And every day I
would walk through the house and stare at these yellow pages all over the
floor.
Eventually it dawned on me—it was a big “aha” moment—that about
half of these sequences seemed to be focused on interior or subjective
realities, or realities in consciousness (for example, Maslow’s needs
hierarchy). The other half were devoted to exterior or material realities (like
Lenski’s techno-economic stages of development). Dividing them into
subjective and objective (or interior and exterior) worked very well. Then a
bit later, as I kept staring at them, it suddenly became obvious that about
half of them were focused on an individual (for example, the evolution of
an atom to a molecule to a cell to a multicellular organism is a holarchy of
individual holons), and about half were focused on collective or group
development (for example, individual holons come together into groups to
form, respectively, stars [atoms] to planets [molecules] to a biosphere
[cells] to a particular ecosystem [organisms]). And this worked quite well,
too.
When I put them all together, this gave me four major, very distinct
groups—namely, the subjective and the objective realities of both an
individual and a collective/group. I wrote these out on a single large

diagram, which gave me four boxes or 4 quadrants; on the original diagram,
the two Left-hand quadrants were the interior, inside (or subjective)
quadrants and the two Right-hand quadrants were the exterior, outside (or
objective) quadrants. The two upper quadrants were the individual or
singular views (Left-hand and subjective or Right-hand and objective), and
the two lower quadrants were the collective or group or plural views (Lefthand intersubjective or Right-hand interobjective). See figure 11.1. So we
have the inside (interior, subjective) and the outside (exterior, objective) of
the singular (individual, personal) and the plural (collective, group). And it
very much looks like they all arise together, evolve together, and “tetraenact” each other. They turn out, in fact, to be four simultaneous
dimensions of every holon in existence.

FIGURE 11.1. The 4 quadrants.

FIGURE 11.2. A sampling of holons in all 4 quadrants.

Figures 11.2 and 11.3 are two examples of the 4 quadrants. Figure 11.2
is a sampling of holons from the lowest to the highest in each quadrant, and
figure 11.3 is a sampling of holons in the quadrants as they appear in
humans.
These dimensions are about as basic as you can get, and they seem to be
based on fundamental distinctions (subject versus object and singular versus
plural), and these dimensions are exactly what gave us the 1st-, 2nd-, and
3rd-person pronouns.

What’s so amazing about the 4 quadrants is the number of other quite
well-known classifications that these quadrants seem to support. We’ve
already seen that this includes the 1st-, 2nd-, and 3rd-person pronouns and
the Christian Trinity, but it also includes the Good, the True, and the
Beautiful; Buddha, Dharma, Sangha; Habermas’s three different validity
claims; Popper’s three worlds; Kant’s three Critiques (of Pure Reason,
Practical Reason, and the Power of Judgment); and so on. The quadrants
seem to be the original foundation of all of them. All of those
classifications, in other words, seem to be variations of the quadrants,
which are their prior ontological principles. Again, the quadrants appear to
be tapping into some extremely fundamental dimensions in the creation of
this universe. It’s hard to think of any other pairs of opposites more
prevalent or irreducible than the subject/object and the singular/plural—
they really are incredibly fundamental. And thus “Showing Up” for all of
them seems to be a very good idea indeed.

FIGURE 11.3. Some holons in the 4 quadrants as they appear in humans.

4 QUADRANTS OR THE BIG THREE?
So which is it, 4 quadrants or the Big Three? Notice that, almost from the
start—and even in the objective natural sciences—there has been a
recalcitrant argument about what is the “really real” reality in the objective,
3rd-person, material world—is it the whole system (the Lower Right) or
just its individual parts (the Upper Right)? Atomists look at a wheel and all

they can see is a bunch of individual parts. (And since the same must be
true of the parts as well, all we end up with is a load of the most
fundamental “atoms” or “ultimate particles” that are thought to be real.)
Systems theorists, if anything, err in the opposite direction: the only thing
that is really real is the whole system itself. All individual parts or elements
are just abstractions or fragmentations from the actual underlying reality of
the whole system.
As to which of these quadrants is “really real,” Integral has always said
“Yes.” And if you say, as systems theorists usually do, that both objective,
3rd-person, or Right-hand quadrants are real (so that you include both
individuals and whole systems, both the Upper Right and the Lower Right
quadrants, which together comprise the sum total of the objective universe),
then you get 4 quadrants (two Right Hand and 2 Left Hand); if you say,
with the atomists, that only one of the Right-hand quadrants is real (namely,
the Upper Right quadrant of individual atoms), then you get 3 quadrants
(the Big Three). All 4 of the quadrants are, of course, real, although it is
quite common to reduce them to the Big Three. Even Habermas—
considered by many (including me) to be the world’s greatest philosopher—
in his three validity claims, collapses what I call the Upper Right and the
Lower Right into one, single, 3rd-person, objective world. So keep that in
mind.
As thorny as these questions about the relation of the individual and the
collective can be (the relation of the upper and lower quadrants), the more
difficult question has always concerned the relation between the subjective
or interior and the objective or exterior quadrants (the Left Hand and the
Right Hand quadrants). Again, Integral has always said “Yes” to the
irreducible reality of all 4 quadrants, but let’s take a little more detailed look
at the subject and object—often known in the West as the “mind-body
problem,” and more recently as the “mind-brain problem,” which is often
called “the hard problem” and is considered the most difficult problem in
Western philosophy.

THE HARD PROBLEM OR THE MIND-BODY PROBLEM
Because the 4 quadrants turn out to be such fundamental aspects of reality,
they end up solving (or explaining) a huge number of recalcitrant problems.
This seems to include the mind-body problem, which, as we noted, is said
to be the most difficult problem in Western thought. But it is a difficult
issue only because there is a constant attempt to try to reduce one quadrant
to another, and Integral maintains that’s not possible. Fundamentally, the
mind (or consciousness) is simply the Upper Left quadrant—what you see
when you look at an individual organism from within, in a 1st-person or
subjective stance—while the brain, on the other hand, is indeed part of the
body, the Upper Right quadrant—which is what you see when you look at
an individual organism from without, in an objective or 3rd-person stance.
So only you (having access to your own 1st-person perspective) can see
your mind, but a surgeon regularly cuts open a skull and can directly see the
brain (and so can anybody else, or any 3rd person, watching the operation).
The brain itself looks something like a crumpled grapefruit, but your mind
doesn’t look anything like that. Mind and brain are clearly two different
things in at least some important ways. And in reality, neither 1st-person
mind nor 3rd-per-son brain can be reduced to the other without totally
destroying it. (And there are not just these two dimensions that are
interacting—the subjective and the objective; there are always 4 major
dimensions, including the intersubjective and the interobjective, that are
always tetra-enacting, which we’ll explore below.)
Nowadays, the mind-body problem shows up especially as the mindbrain problem (where “brain” replaces “body” in the formulation, because
the brain is found in the body, so the mind-body problem becomes the
mind-brain problem). Because there has been so much research showing
that all states of consciousness or mind register as some sort of brain
neurophysiology, there is a great temptation to simply see the mind or
consciousness (which inherently is a 1st-person perspective) as being the
same thing as these brain states (objective body states, which are a 3rdperson perspective). Thus hidden materialists will often reduce the mind to

the brain and then say that, because the brain is simply part of the body or
organism, the mind-body problem is solved—when, of course, it’s nothing
of the sort. The fact that you have reduced the 1st-person (Upper Left)
quadrant of consciousness to the 3rd-person (Upper Right) quadrant of
brain neurophysiology does not mean you have explained 1st-person
consciousness; it means you have destroyed it. The 1st-person dimension is
no longer the 1st person; you haven’t explained it—you’ve explained it
away. Wherever you saw a 1st-person mental event you simply replaced it
with a 3rd-person neurophysiological event, but that doesn’t explain 1st
person; it deletes it.
However, the mind-body problem, in its most fundamental aspects, does
not just start with humans. Because it is essentially about the relation of the
Left-hand and the Right-hand dimensions, this “split” is most centrally
between the interior and the exterior perspectives, and that split goes all the
way back to the Big Bang, when a manifest universe first appeared, and as
such, there was a differentiation between, for example, the interior of an
atom (its proto-feeling or prehension) and its exterior (its visible
matter/energy form). In just a moment, I will go over exactly what the
interior (or prehension) of an atom means; for the moment, note that, as you
can see in figure 11.2, the Left-hand (interior) and the Right-hand (exterior)
dimensions of existence accompanied every major level of evolution from
the start—from the interiors and exteriors of quarks and atoms all the way
up to a human mind (interior) and its material brain/body (exterior). These
represent two different perspectives on the same underlying and whole
holon.
Since this occurs at each level, where the interior and the exterior are
basically two different dimensions of the same underlying Wholeness (or
Nonduality), when they are manifest, they each appear as a partialness. And
this partialness is what makes the body/mind problem so hard to solve for a
human awareness: the problem itself cannot finally be solved (in a way that
“feels” right) until the primary dualism between subject and object, interior
and exterior, is dissolved, and that occurs only with a genuine Waking Up
or One Taste awareness, whereupon the underlying Nondual reality is itself

actually and truly realized. Cartesian dualism cannot finally be solved by
any amount of logic, reasoning, or evidence (which is why it’s the most
difficult problem for Western logic to solve); it yields only upon a direct
Waking Up to the ever-present ultimate Reality of Nondual Suchness. At
that point, the inside and the outside—as the sky turns into a big blue
pancake and falls on your head—are finally seen as “not-two,” and that
Realization finally (dis)solves the mind-body or mind-brain problem.
However, in the relative world, there are still a staggering number of
correlations that need to be mapped—what are the major correlations
between Upper Right brain states and Upper Left mind states? But the
duality itself is resolved through the realization, revealed with a genuine
Waking Up, that both dimensions are partial perspectives on the same
underlying Wholeness.
In this regard, I should mention that you don’t need a major Waking Up
in order to begin Showing Up. In order to Show Up, it is only necessary to
realize that, at whatever level of Growing Up you are at, you have all 4 of
these major dimensions available. This realization can indeed happen at
virtually every level of Growing Up because the quadrants do indeed go
“all the up, all the way down”—they’re fully present at all levels, as you
can see in figures 11.2 and 11.3. We’ll continue to explore what that means,
why it is so important, and how it can make such a significant change in
your life.
To sum up: all 4 quadrants are manifestations of a genuinely nondual
Reality. Moment to moment, nondual Spirit manifests the entire relative
world, and when it does, it does so as all 4 quadrants simultaneously. It
arises as a subject with various objects, and in an individual holon
inextricably interwoven with a group or collective holon. As we’ll explore
in more depth just below, you can’t have subjects without objects, and
individual holons always exist in various groups or collective holons—the 4
quadrants arise together, evolve together, and tetra-enact each other.

THE REAL MEANING OF MATTER
There’s another reason why the 4 quadrants tell us something very
important and why they are especially significant when it comes to spiritual
realities—it really changes the very core of how we view spirituality itself.
In all the Great Traditions, without exception, when something like the
Great Chain of Being is presented (which the vast majority of the Traditions
embrace), what they call “matter” is always on the very lowest rung of the
Great Chain. A typical Christian version of the Great Chain of Being, for
example, runs from matter to body to mind to soul to spirit (where “matter”
in this scheme means just dead matter, while “body” means the living body
of feelings and desires; in other words, matter is the physical world that
existed before any life forms evolved, which themselves began with the
emergence of the body level). Everything above matter, or the physical
dimension of reality, is indeed claimed to be “meta-physical,”
“supernatural,” or “trans-material”—that is, all of those higher levels (body,
mind, soul, and spirit) are thought to be totally beyond matter and can exist
fully without any sort of material aspect. And notice, in this scheme, that
the feelings of a worm’s living body exist on the second level, or the body
level of feelings and desires; and the human triune brain, considered just in
its material form, exists on the first level, the matter level. (But a real
human brain exists at least on the third level, the mind level.) So a worm’s
feelings are higher in reality than a human brain—and something is clearly
not quite right about that scheme. It is for these kinds of reasons that both
modernity and postmodernity completely rejected almost all the ideas that
have come from the premodern Wisdom Traditions and their silly Great
Chains.
An Integral analysis suggests instead—an insight that also allows
science and religion to clearly fit together—that matter is not the lowest
level of reality but rather the exterior dimension of every level of reality
(it’s the Right-hand reality of every Left-hand occasion). Thus, when my
mind has a logical thought in the 1st-person, interior Upper Left, my
material brain is producing electrical impulses in the 3rd-person, exterior

Upper Right. Even Upper Left spiritual states (such as a Zen satori) have
correlative Upper Right material brain states (a satori causes a change in
brain physiology). An enormous amount of recent research has found
specific brain patterns accompanying major mystical states, including those
of a feeling of oneness with the entire universe. Some researchers even refer
to the area or pattern of the brain that lights up with a mystical experience
the “God-spot,” which some laboratory wags have called the “G-spot.”
These Upper Left mystical events in consciousness cannot be reduced to
those Upper Right material brain correlates, although they always occur
together, precisely because all 4 quadrants are always tetra-enacting and
tetra-arising.
So what the Traditions thought of as being beyond nature, supernatural,
or beyond the physical—and thus literally “metaphysical”—turns out to
really be intraphysical: it’s not a view from beyond matter; it’s a view from
within matter, from the interior consciousness that is always correlated with
an exterior form or material dimension.[2] Likewise, the supernatural is not
beyond nature, it’s within nature. Nature is not being left behind—but
neither is Spirit being exclusively identified with Nature. Rather, all Lefthand consciousness events are not beyond matter or nature but are the
interior or Left-hand quadrants of the Right-hand or exterior quadrants, as
you can see in figures 11.2 and 11.3. Thus matter is not the lowest level of
existence but the exterior dimension of all levels of existence.
This is a major change in how we see the relationship of consciousness
and matter, or spirit and matter. And most importantly, it allows a truly
spiritual perspective to legitimately exist in a world that also has material
correlates everywhere (that is, it can happily exist alongside a world of
scientific materialism, since it covers the interior, subjective quadrants,
while scientific materialism covers the exterior, objective quadrants).
Scientific materialism is mistaken when it reduces the entire world to
matter, but we don’t have to deny that there are these material correlates—
as we’ve seen, they are indeed there, they are real. No 3rd-person, objective
perspective of a scientific materialism will ever—by definition—be able to
be a 1st-person, subjective perspective, and thus no 3rd-person reality will

be enough to explain (let alone deny) the existence of 1st-person realities.
Therefore, no amount of scientific research can dislodge a spiritual
perspective—it is totally beside the point because 3rd-person, exterior
science can neither prove nor disprove 1st-person, interior consciousness
and spirit.
One of the simplest ways of thinking about this second meaning of
matter—the exterior reality of any holon—is that these material exteriors
can always be seen, videotaped, photographed, or otherwise detected by the
human senses or their extensions. Of course, in some cases, we might need
a videotape smaller than any we now possess, but if we had a videotape
small enough, we could see any exterior that exists (including those of, for
example, quarks and strings). If you look at figures 11.2 and 11.3, all of the
Right-hand or exterior holons can be seen or photographed, but none of the
interior or Left-hand holons can.
The only reason that almost none of the Great Traditions realized this
(and therefore they all put matter on the lowest level of the Great Chain) is
that none of them had the tools to see material dimensions at much smaller
or much larger dimensions (microscopes or telescopes), so they had no way
of seeing that these correlations where always occurring. They were having
satoris all the time, but none of them could see the corresponding
physiological brain changes that were also occurring. Likewise, when
modern science emerged with the Western Enlightenment, and tools were
developed to see these correlations, the tendency was to dismiss all the
spiritual traditions that weren’t “smart” enough to see these correlations. In
other words, ever since science and religion began to emerge and exist
together, they have each denied the existence of the other.
At the same time, we can fully acknowledge the reality of those 3rdperson correlates without completely collapsing and reducing everything to
them. That is, we can fully accept the existence of Right-hand realities
without having to completely trash and deny all Left-hand realities at the
same time. And notice that this does not mean that some of our subjective
truth claims must go without any corroborating evidence at all. Although
objective science cannot prove, disprove, or otherwise dislodge a spiritual

reality, a higher stage of Growing Up can dislodge inaccuracies in spiritual
intelligence found in a lower stage (just as, with the modern Enlightenment,
rational spiritual intelligence dislodged much of mythic spiritual
intelligence). And a higher state of consciousness in Waking Up can
dislodge or sublate inadequacies of a lower state (as a 5th state can dislodge
or move beyond a 2nd state). But none of those interior, 1st-person realities
can be proven or disproven by the merely 3rd-person views of a scientific
materialism.
So any spiritual states in the Left-hand quadrants will have material
correlates in the Right-hand quadrants (even a satori lights up the brain).
And thus matter becomes not the bottom rung on the Great Chain but the
exterior dimension of each and every rung on the Great Chain. Even the
lowest level of reality (or “matter” in its first meaning) has an interior in
addition to its exterior. Whitehead called the interior, at this lowest, most
fundamental level, “prehension” (see fig. 11.2). Whatever this lowest level’s
exterior turns out to be—which can be seen or videotaped with some form
of objective detecting instruments: subatomic particles, photons, quarks,
ten-dimensional strings—it will also contain the lowest level of interiors
too—namely, some sort of prehension (Whitehead called prehension “the
atom of experience”). We can think about prehension starting on the lowest
level and then continuing in increasingly complex forms as it moves up the
spectrum of consciousness (the Left-hand dimensions).
As that material level continues to evolve—with increasing complexity
and increasing prehension—it eventually brings forth a dimension of reality
that actually is living, starting with the earliest living cells, such as
prokaryotes—whose interiors include what biologists call “irritability” (its
form of prehension), which means that, for example, if you poke a living
cell, it reacts. The collective form of the first or insentient level is broadly
known as the “physiosphere,” and the second or living level is called the
“biosphere.”
The biosphere is still material in its exteriors (as all holons are)—a
living cell can still be objectively seen and photographed (using a
microscope)—using “matter” in the second sense, that which is the

exteriors of all interiors. But the biosphere is not material in the first sense,
which refers to the nonliving, insentient physiosphere. The exteriors of a
living cell (such as you would see by looking at a cell through a
microscope) are clearly visible matter (an observable form existing in
mass/energy spacetime and, therefore, something you can see, photograph,
videotape, or otherwise objectively detect). As matter continues to evolve
into even more complex material forms (in the Right Hand), by the time the
material triune brain has emerged, a level of reality known as the
“noosphere” has emerged and the interiors (Left Hand) have evolved to a
level of consciousness that can create images and symbols. (Consciousness
is on the way to developing concepts, rules, meta-rules, and higher—
starting with level 9 in the Upper Left of fig. 11.2; the biosphere itself starts
with irritability at level 3, and the lowest or earliest form of prehension
starts at level 1.) All the interior levels are complex forms of prehension, the
inside, feeling-awareness aspect of holons (as contrasted with their exterior
forms, or matter).
In this simple example, we see three major realms of being—the
physiosphere, the biosphere, and the noosphere—each of which has an
interior (various forms of prehension) and an exterior (various forms of
matter). The Left-hand quadrants include interiors that range from the first
form of prehension (in the physiosphere) to forms of prehension that
include the irritability of living cells (in the biosphere) to mental symbols
and concepts (in the noosphere). The Right-hand quadrants include
exteriors that run from strings and quarks and atoms (the physiosphere) to
the forms of biological organisms (the biosphere) to a complex triune brain
(the noosphere). “Matter” can continue to refer to the lowest, insentient,
dead level of reality (which still has an interior with the first forms of
prehension), but it can also refer to the exterior of any level of reality (not
just the dead or insentient).
This view is sometimes called “panpsychism,” a term I’m not fond of,
although many major philosophers have been identified with that label (for
example, Whitehead, Leibniz, and Spinoza—Einstein famously said that “I
believe in the God of Spinoza”). My qualms with the term is that psyche (as

in pan-psych-ism) is too complex an entity to be found in the interiors of,
say, quarks or protons (or the nonliving physiosphere in general). At this
very early level, the feeling that is present—its prehension—is much too
simple to be considered psyche. The lowest capacity that a psyche (meaning
“soul” or “mind”) is usually taken to possess is the capacity to use images
and symbols, and these are much too complex to be pan, which means “all”
or applicable to “everything,” that is, found in even the most elementary
and fundamental holons in existence.
I prefer the term pan-interiorism, because one thing is certain: if these
lowest (or physiosphere) holons have something called an “exterior,” they
definitely have something called an “interior.” Like all opposites, the two
terms don’t make sense without each other. Physicists seem to have no
trouble giving a fairly detailed description of physical holons as seen from
the outside (all the major quarks, for example, have now been detected or
“seen” by particle accelerators—as we noted, everything in the Right Hand
can be seen by some sort of “videotape”). But if they have exteriors, they
also have interiors (as some form of prehension). We wouldn’t even
understand what it meant to say that “we can detect these quarks as seen
from without” if there were not also some type of “seen from within.” Why
even acknowledge that these are exteriors, seen from without, objective, if
there were not also interiors, seen from within, subjective? Wherever there
is an object reality (the exterior of an individual or collective holon), there
is a subject reality (the interior of an individual or collective holon). Again,
these two—subjective and objective—are opposites because they intimately
depend on one another and always arise together.
So I’m a pan-interiorist. Having a world of all exteriors and no interiors
would be like having a world of all ups and no downs, all lefts and no
rights, all ins and no outs. It doesn’t even make any sense.
But we have to be careful not to let this seduce us into a scientific
materialism. The levels of increasing being and awareness (or prehension)
that show up in the Left-hand quadrants will show up as increasing material
complexities in the Right Hand. So—to continue using the Christian version
of the Great Chain—where in the Left Hand, there is an evolution from

matter to life to mind to soul to spirit (all very real interior realities as forms
of prehension), in the Right Hand, there are increasingly complex material
configurations at each of those levels: from insentient atoms and molecules
to the first living cells, to more complex multicellular organisms, to more
complex organisms with a reptilian brain stem, to yet more complex
organisms with a mammalian limbic system, to yet more complex
organisms such as humans with a complex, triune brain (which is so
complex that it alone has more neuronal connections than there are stars in
the known universe). And actual spiritual experiences—starting with satori
at the soul level—have correlates in the complex triune brain, as recent
research, we noted, has demonstrated.[3]
The inherent correlation of consciousness and matter (that is, the
correlation of Left Hand and Right Hand) is what Teilhard de Chardin
called “the law of complexity and consciousness”—namely, the more
complex the material housing, the greater the degree of consciousness.
When Alan Watts was asked why he was a vegetarian, he said, “Cows
scream louder than carrots when you kill them”—same thing. So, while, in
the Right Hand, matter is becoming more and more complex, in the Left
Hand, consciousness (prehension) is becoming greater and greater. And, as I
remarked, we have to be very careful not to let this expanded definition of
matter result in a scientific materialism: the fact that matter is the exterior of
all levels does not mean that you can just address matter itself and you’ve
covered all the bases. That move completely guts the interiors and gives us
“the crime of the Enlightenment,” as we’ll see.
DEFUSING THE DEBATE OVER TRANSGENDER IDENTITY
The 4 quadrants can also be used to defuse the inflammatory arguments
about transgender identity. Let’s think about individuals who were
identified at birth as males who transition to being female through
hormones and surgery. Biologically, their sex (in the Upper Right quadrant)
remains male—every cell in their body has an X chromosome and a Y
chromosome, and that cannot be changed.[4] This leads many people in the

culture wars who focus on this Upper Right scientific quadrant to claim that
transwomen are not women because males who have transitioned to female
are still completely male in their biological makeup (or XY, which is
definitely true). On the other side, there are those who focus on the interior,
subjective quadrants, where how one feels about one’s gender is found in
the Upper Left quadrant and how one’s culture defines and constructs
norms for each gender is in the Lower Left. (The words male and female
refer to the sex assigned at birth, and masculine and feminine refer to
gender.) From the perspective of the Upper Left quadrant, transwomen are
indeed women since they feel that their identity is female.
Gender studies often claim that, no matter the person’s sex assigned at
birth, gender is indeed nonbinary—there are not just two genders.
Facebook, for example, now recognizes over one hundred different genders.
Those who argue that only scientific biological sex is real maintain that
those who think gender can diverge from sex are clinically delusional,
whereas those who argue for the reality of transgender claim that their
opponents are nothing but transphobes, expressing a nasty prejudice and
bias against this minority. This is a perfect example of a wildly fragmented
culture-war argument about which quadrant alone is real. Neither side sees
that the other side is discussing something that is equally true but partial.
Both of these quadrants actually exist, and taking the perspective of only
one of them will give you the viewpoint of just one side of the argument. If
you take a 3rd-person perspective and recognize the reality of the Upper
Right (scientific) quadrant, you will see that every cell in a person’s body is
male (XY) or every cell is female (XX), a fact that can never be changed.
But if you take a 1st-person perspective and recognize the two subjective
(personal or cultural) quadrants—you will see that sexual identity (gender)
is indeed nonbinary, with over a hundred different sexual identities possible.
Both of those perspectives are true, and both of their viewpoints are indeed
simultaneously true but partial.

THE QUADRANTS IN EVERYDAY LIFE
Showing Up means to fully acknowledge, and totally inhabit, all 4
quadrants of existence—to not try to deny, ignore, or reduce any of them to
the others but to see all of them as equally real, equally important, and
equally tetra-evolving and tetra-enacting. Not only does this end numerous
centuries-old arguments about which quadrants are real and which are
dismissible, it allows each of us to start acknowledging these realities in our
own lives. Although it’s probably not yet obvious, virtually any endeavor
that you are engaged in right now is almost certainly denying, or reducing,
or is completely ignorant of, or is totally confusing, one or more of the 4
quadrants—and this truly is having some very unpleasant repercussions in
your life.
Allow me to explain. Every example I have given so far about the
importance of the quadrants draws on some very academic and abstract
controversies, and it’s probably not obvious how directly important the
quadrants are in your own life, right now, moment to moment. So let me
give you an example that relates directly to your own life. I’ll take a
common experience—say, having a particular thought, such as, “It’s time to
watch my favorite podcast.” I’ll try to show how that thought has
immediate correlates in all 4 quadrants, and each of them is crucial in being
able to have that thought at all. And further, every time you have a thought
(or any individual experience), all 4 quadrants are activated and fully
involved.
This thought itself “exists” in the Upper Left quadrant (where exists
means “primarily manifests as”). This is the perspective of 1st-person
singular (“I,” “me,” “mine”). This thought exists alongside an enormous
number of other thoughts (about the past, the present, and the future).
Without splitting philosophical hairs, the sum total of these thoughts and
other subjective 1st-person experiences is generally known as the “mind”
(sometimes “consciousness,” sometimes “experience”). Your mind is what
you are directly and immediately aware of right now if you look within—
you have a 1st-person perception of something inside you, and it is the 1st-

person part that makes it you, your self, your mind, your subject, your
experience. Of course, you can also use this consciousness to look at things
outside of you. But either way, this 1st-person reality actually exists
ontologically (it’s a real dimension), and it sees the world from that 1stperson stance (it’s a real perspective). That is why we call quadrants
“dimension/perspectives”—they are real dimensions with real perspectives.
Right now, if you are reading this or hearing it or viewing it, there is a
stream of thought going through your mind, and that stream is attempting to
translate what is being said by me into something that makes sense to you.
But that translation process could not occur at all unless both you and I
were members of a common culture. “Culture,” in the Integral Framework,
specifically means the collective holons seen or experienced from within—
it’s the Lower Left quadrant. There are, of course, two quadrants in the Left
Hand—the Upper Left and the Lower Left. The Upper Left is 1st-person
singular (“I” or “me” or “mine,” which is the interior of an individual
subjective reality). The Lower Left is 1st-person plural (“we,” “us,” “our,”
“ours,” the interior of a collective or an intersubjective reality). I’ve
previously said that the Lower Left is 2nd person (“you” or “thou”), and
that’s true. But if I meet you as a 2nd person (“the person being spoken to”)
and then find out that you don’t speak English and I can’t speak your
language, then neither of us has any way at all to communicate, so we are
reduced to being 3rd persons for each other. Each of us might as well be
talking to a rock or a hammer.
In other words, for a real “you” and a real “I” to be able to form an
actual “we,” there has to be at least some degree of mutual understanding or
genuine communication. So the Lower Left is indeed a 2nd person “you,”
but in order for that 2nd person to remain a real 2nd person, there has to be
some sort of “we” that is formed. This “we” is often formed through a
verbal or linguistic exchange between us (collective language is an
important part of the Lower Left quadrant). But if we cannot understand
each other in any way, then there is no real 2nd-person “you”; each of us
appears only as a 3rd-per-son “it.” This “it” is the exterior (“matter” in the
second sense); it’s just us looking at our Right-hand exterior realities with

no way to gain access to any of our Left-hand interior realities. So although
I often refer to the Lower Left quadrant as “2nd person,” since any
awareness of this demands a “we,” I often call it “you/we” or just “we”
(notice that “we” is a 1st-person plural pronoun, which is exactly what you
and I need in order to communicate). This “we” definitely contains an “I”
and a “you,” but they can’t begin to share anything unless a “we” genuinely
starts to form. Thus any real “you” that exists implies and demands a real
“we.”
The quadrants are consistent here. Remember that the two Upper
quadrants are singular (or individual) and the two Lower quadrants are
plural (or collective). And the two Left-hand quadrants are subjective
(prehension or interior), and the two Right-hand quadrants are objective
(matter or exterior). So this Lower Left quadrant of culture means that my
“I” and your “I”—both Left-hand, subjective, 1st-person singular realities
—have come together to form a 1st-person plural; and that “we” is culture.
The Upper Left, 1st-person, singular, or subjective dimensions come
together to form a Lower Left plural or intersubjective dimension—which
is how we define “culture.” Both of them are interior dimensions (Lefthand); one is singular and one is plural. Culture in this sense includes an
enormous number of shared areas—such as a shared language, values,
meaning systems, ideals, morals, norms, collective agreement on which
actions should be rewarded or punished, cultural habits, common goals, and
so on.
Unlike the realities in the Right-hand quadrants, nothing in the interior
dimensions of the Left-hand quadrants can be videotaped or photographed.
That is, in themselves, they cannot be seen as material, exterior objects. If
they could be, they could be photographed or videotaped, and they would
be Right-hand realities. People sometimes get confused here because things
like language can be seen in any written document. Very true, but that
written document is simply the exterior, 3rd-person correlate of an interior
1st-person experience and understanding. For example, if you and I were
both looking at the same page written in, say, Spanish, and you understand
Spanish well but I don’t speak it at all, then although exactly the same 3rd-

person exterior light is hitting your eyes and mine, in our 1st-person minds,
the words mean a great deal to you and mean absolutely nothing to me.
While the material forms of language can indeed be written down in
objective forms in the exterior world (documents that can be videotaped),
the understanding of these material forms does not occur in that dimension.
That understanding is not an exterior, 3rd-person object such as the body or
brain but is an interior experience of the 1st-person subject or mind. For
Integral, of course, both of these exist and both are involved; it’s just that
neither can be reduced to the other.
So the very fact that there is some sort of communication between us
means that the thoughts of your “I” are in some sort of “we-space” with my
thoughts. That is, you are engaging your “I” and, by taking the role of other,
you are trying to see and understand how my “I” views the world.
Especially if we were in the same room, it would be very clear that this is
happening, and if we were engaging in dialogue, this we-space would be
one of mutual understanding (which is the core of all we-culture). It’s true
that if you are reading this material by yourself, and I’m not physically
present, then we are not directly and explicitly forming a mutual
understanding; but the strong implication is that if you are understanding
any of this text, then if we were indeed in each other’s presence, we would
be able to form an obvious exchange of mutual understanding by talking to
each other. To the extent that we were both a real “you” for each other, there
would likewise also be a real “we” that had formed—and thus the Lower
Left is always a “you/we.” Even if you were alone in a cave, to the extent
that you are a real “you” (“the person being spoken to”), you are implicitly
part of a “we” (actually several different “we’s” or sub-“we’s” or subsub-“we’s”). Hence, for example, whenever you think, even if you are
totally alone, you are actually thinking using some language, and that
language is a genuinely collective entity that exists only as a real westructure, collective shared meanings and mutual understandings—any real
“you” is always a “you/we.”
Like everything else in the Left-hand quadrants, this is not an exterior
object; hence the “no videotaping” rule. You can videotape, or figuratively

“put your finger on,” anything in the exterior, Right-hand quadrants. You
can put your finger on a single atom (you can see it with an electron
microscope) and put your finger on a molecule (see it with a regular
microscope), and likewise you can put your finger on a cell, an organism, a
plant, or an animal, as well as on exterior collectives such as ecosystems,
galaxies, nebulae, and planets, and on exterior artifacts, including foraging,
and horticultural, agrarian, and industrial activities (although you would
need a big finger). In sum, exteriors exist in an objective, seen-fromwithout, 3rd-person, material dimension, and thus you can videotape them
or put your finger right on them, and in many cases actually touch them.
But can you put your finger on, say, mutual understanding? Can you
touch it? Just where exactly does it exist? Can you videotape it? No, that
just won’t work at all, and it won’t work—ever—precisely because 1stperson subject and 3rd-person object are two very different (but always
correlated and interwoven) dimensions, and they are detected using very
different, very real perspectives. All 1st-person realities can be experienced
but not videotaped; you cannot put your finger on anything in your mind
(although you can put your fingerprints all over a brain). None of the
experiences of love, envy, mercy, care and compassion, fear, malice, hope,
jealousy, even the experiences of most of logic and mathematics, can be
seen in the exterior world (nobody has ever seen the square root of negative
one running around out there in the material world). You can photograph
none of those experiences; you can’t put your finger on any of them.
The very fact that you and I are now engaged in a communication
process means that although there are a phenomenal number of 3rd-person,
objective processes that are occurring in both of us—from light waves
falling on our eyes to digital data bits being processed in our neuronal
circuits—these processes must be converted to subjective understanding
through a different set of events and conditions: We both have to speak and
understand the same language (so that the same language is moving through
our 1st-person minds, which is different from the fact that light is reflected
from what we each are reading into our 3rd-person eyes). Both of us must
have access to and, most importantly, understand how to use computers (so

that, once again, the same understanding is moving through our minds,
which is different from the fact that light is falling on our eyes from the
computer screen). Both of us must be familiar with and share a great deal of
background knowledge. Both of us must have a joint interest in this
material, and so on. All of these events and conditions require 1st-person,
subjective realities in each of us. If so, then we each have—in addition to
our 1st-person singular, subjective “I,” or individual mind—some sort of
1st-person plural, intersubjective, shared culture, or “we.”
Most important of all, there is not a single thought in the mind that is
not deeply interwoven with, and made possible by, a culture of other minds.
These individual minds come together into a culture not simply because the
same light waves fall on their eyes and move into their brains (a 3rd-person
dimension) but because a shared understanding unites their minds (a 1stperson dimension). It is widely agreed that there is no such thing as a
“private language,” a language that only you can understand. Even if you
could create such a thing (and simple forms of this have been created), it
would be utterly worthless as a means of communication, since—by
definition—nobody but you would understand it. For communication and
understanding to occur, you would have to teach somebody else this
language, at which point it is no longer private.
So keep this in mind as you think about culture—and about any thought
you might have, including “It’s time to listen to my favorite podcast.” It’s
not an individual, isolated, self-existing thing. There are an enormous
number of cultures (and subcultures and sub-sub-cultures) that you belong
to, and all of those individual thoughts have some sort of context and
meaning in one or more of those cultures. Put simply, each subjective
thought has an intersubjective meaning. And none of them can be
videotaped; you can’t put your finger on any of them. They are direct,
interior, subjective holons, either singular or plural, each of which also has a
Right-hand correlate that you can indeed see or videotape; just don’t
confuse or equate them with those Right-hand realities.
So wherever there’s some sort of an individual thought or Upper Left
occurrence, there is also some sort of collective Lower Left occurrence as

well—especially some sort of language structure, set of norms and rules, or
some sort of mutual understanding with one or another groups, and so on.
Likewise, the reverse is also true—any group or collective, by definition,
always contains one or more individual members, or it wouldn’t be a group.
In short, when either one of these quadrants (Upper Left or Lower Left) is
present, so is the other one. Subjective mind (Upper Left) and
intersubjective culture (Lower Left) always go together.
As we’ve also seen, one objective correlate of the mind is generally
called the “brain.” I don’t often discuss the brain in much detail, simply
because the neurophysiological study of the brain is indeed an objective,
natural, Right-hand science, and thus it will move forward and make
progress, come what may. There’s a new study every week showing that a
particular part of the brain lights up when anger (a mind state) is
experienced, or when anxiety (a mind state) is experienced, or even when
there is an experience of being one with Divinity—as we saw, it’s actually
called the “God spot” (or the “G spot”). But these are not reducible to each
other. Surely, any sort of real God or Spirit is absolutely not equal to, or the
same as, a particular location in the physical brain of a single, isolated
organism. What kind of God would that be? A mental satori might indeed
have a correlate in the physical, material G-spot in the brain—but what this
satori discloses (an absolute Oneness of the entire universe) clearly cannot
be reduced to, or exists only as, that itty-bitty G-spot. The entire universe is
a bit bigger than a walnut! In other words, there is a huge difference
between Upper Right and Upper Left, even though both of them are always
arising together and intimately depend upon each other.
Because neurophysiology is a naturally expanding and progressive
science—and you can look up its results in any decent textbook—I rarely
focus on the details about the brain, except to point out that, like virtually
all phenomena, it is holonic in nature.[5] Indeed, like all quadrants, the
Upper Right quadrant shows a holistic tendency. There is no question that
evolution tends toward greater material complexity and self-organization:
from quarks to atoms to molecules to organisms (and carrying on, from
plants to fish to amphibians to reptiles to mammals to primates to primates

that are human)—holon to holon to holon—and the human brain epitomizes
that transcending and including. (Notice that, were it not for scientific
materialism, those chains of increasing material complexity would also, and
actually do, indicate chains of increasing consciousness among each of its
ever-more complex holons—“the law of complexity and consciousness.”)
Of course, the 3rd-person, singular, objective brain is also interwoven
with a large number of 3rd-person, plural, interobjective systems—the
Upper Right is interwoven with various Lower Right ecological systems
and techno-economic collectives and their multiple artifacts. These material
phenomena are all very real Right-hand exterior realities (or “matter” in the
second sense). As I just noted, the individual, 3rd-person brain and its
organism is in a constant mutual exchange with an almost unlimited number
of 3rd-person plural, collective holons—systems of water, food, oxygen,
and all sorts of ecological and techno-economic correlates (from foraging to
horticultural to agrarian to industrial to informational systems).
There really are no individual holons without plural forms, without
some sort of group or collective or systems form. In other words, every
reality in the Upper Right quadrant has some sort of correlate in the Lower
Right quadrant, just as every reality in the Upper Left quadrant has one or
more correlates in the Lower Left quadrant. For example, take the existence
of a frog. There really isn’t just one frog anywhere in existence. Even when
the frog was first evolving, there had to be at least a male and a female frog.
Male and female cannot exist without each other—not to mention their
reliance on collectives of surrounding animals and plants. This is why all
individual biological realities depend on complex ecological realities. And
ecological realities always contain not only living beings but also their
artifacts, which are the inanimate products of various animate forms of life,
such as a bird’s nest, a beaver dam, an anthill, and so on.
Human beings especially produce an enormous number of artifacts,
from cars to houses to trains to skyscrapers to computers to informationprocessing systems. And notice that all artifacts are 3rd-person, inanimate
objects (in the Lower Right quadrant). It turns out that these artifacts, even
though they are in themselves inanimate, have also undergone stages of

evolution—or at least they can always be arranged in evolutionary stages.
That is, as human beings underwent various stages of evolution, they
produced increasingly evolved the forms of artifacts, and these artifacts can
be aligned alongside the correlative stages of human evolution that
produced them. For example, there are obvious stages in the development
of war machines (bow and arrow, to crossbows and catapults, to airplanes
and bombs, to nuclear weapons). Gerhard Lenski looked at these levels of
artifacts and discovered a very important series of stages in the technoeconomic area, and each of them, like the levels of corresponding evolution
in human unfolding, displayed an increasing degree of complexity. These
artifacts evolved from systems of foraging (or hunting and gathering) to
horticultural stages (agriculture using simple digging sticks or hoes) to
agrarian stages (agriculture using heavy animal-drawn plows) to industrial
stages (using machines) to informational (using computers). These artifacts
are all nonliving, 3rd-person plural realities or exterior, collective objects
and, as such, they all exist in the Lower Right quadrant.
The Lower Right also includes systems of living beings, such as
families, ecosystems, and nation-states; living beings are, after all, what
produce artifacts in the first place. But the artifacts found in those systems
are, by definition, nonliving, and those systems of nonliving things are
found only in the material Lower Right quadrant—“matter” in the second
sense. Thus, for example, the Lower Right includes the techno-economic
artifacts of foraging, horticultural, agrarian, industrial, and informational,
and although all of them are themselves nonliving, techno-economic forms,
they include living human beings, along with other living plants and
animals in an ecosystem. And as genuine systems, they are taken to be real
realities by systems theory.
As we have seen, the real battle in science is between atomism and
systems theory (both deal with objective or exterior material realities). But
for Integral Metatheory, the parts of a wheel are real, but so is the wheel—
both individuals and collectives are real (which is why virtually all
phenomena in each quadrant are actually holons, or whole/parts). Then,
Integral adds, so are their interior realities; that is, both interior holons and

exterior holons are real. For example, brains (Upper Right) go with minds
(Upper Left), minds go with cultures (Lower Left), and brains exist in
ecological systems (Lower Right). All 4 quadrants are deeply interwoven.
So every time you have a thought (“It’s time to watch my favorite
podcast”), you are also lighting up some sort of neural network in the brain,
which—as a biological body—is itself massively interwoven with
innumerable exterior ecological phenomena and system processes. And not
only can this exterior collective be looked at from without as a 3rd-person
plural or interobjective dimension—a system “its” in the Lower Right—the
same collective can also be looked at from within as a 1st-person plural or
intersubjective dimension in the Lower Left—a cultural “we.” That is, not
only can the exterior group be videotaped from without, it can be felt,
shared, and known from within. This is culture. We’ve already seen how
inextricably interwoven culture is with the other quadrants. Thus, for
example, corresponding to the interobjective, techno-economic realities in
the Lower Right (in holarchical order: foraging, horticultural, agrarian,
industrial, informational) there exist the intersubjective, interior, cultural
worldviews that inherently go with those levels (respectively, archaic,
magic, mythic, rational orange, and pluralistic green) in the Lower Left. All
we-spaces are inextricably related to the various “its” systems that go with
them (as you can see in fig. 11.2).
Although any given phenomenon often emphasizes a particular
quadrant (like culture emphasizes the Lower Left and consciousness the
Upper Left), the phenomena in each quadrant have correlates in all the other
quadrants. They exist together and arise together—they tetra-enact and
tetra-evolve. Thus, when you are having that seemingly individual and
stand-alone thought in the Upper Left mind (“It’s time to watch my favorite
podcast”), you are actually and ultimately plugged into all 4 quadrants.
This is how and why the universe hangs together. And by “what hangs
together,” I don’t mean just objective atoms or interobjective systems, I
mean subjective, objective, intersubjective, and interobjective
dimension/perspectives—all 4 quadrants. When the universe blew into
existence, it didn’t involve just a large number of physical forces (for

example, gravity, the strong and weak nuclear force, and electromagnetism
—all merely 3rd-person realities)—it also involved the fundamental
distinctions of individual and collective (singular and plural) and interior
and exterior (subjective prehension and objective space/time). These are
different ways that the universe—the self-organizing universe—sees itself
and is aware of itself. It involves all 4 quadrants. The totally interwoven
nature of the entire universe is exactly why you can have a real experience
of Unity consciousness or a Kosmic consciousness, and its very existence is
indeed “not disputable.”
THE IMPORTANCE OF THE 4 QUADRANTS IN BIG WHOLENESS
The importance of all 4 quadrants becomes especially significant when we
look at Showing Up, which is defined as “showing up for all the important
perspectives and dimensions in the universe,” that is, all 4 quadrants. This is
easily seen when we look at the different methodologies that humans have
developed to gain access to the different realms of reality. For each of these
different dimensions of reality—subjective, objective, intersubjective, and
interobjective—we have developed different epistemologies about how we
come to know them. And although adherents to the method and
epistemology appropriate to one quadrant have often gotten into fights and
arguments with adherents to that of another about which one alone is real,
it’s clear that all of these methods need to be included in any sort of truly
holistic approach to reality. Further, the very existence of all of these
methodologies show us just how real each quadrant is.
For the Upper Right quadrant, we have developed empirical methods
and an empiricist epistemology. These methods define reality as consisting
primarily of that which can be seen or detected using the five human senses
or their extensions (which really means “can be seen by the body in the
Upper Right quadrant”; and this means, essentially, anything that can be
videotaped). All theories—or simply all statements—about reality have to
be backed up with “evidence,” which usually means experiential data—data
derived from using the five senses or their extensions (that is, the evidence

can be videotaped). Among other things, this method is taken as the
foundation of any theory that claims to be “scientific.” This Upper Right
empirical dimension is clearly an important part of any true reality, and it
definitely needs to be included.
Of course, this empirical sensory evidence can be extended to include
any groups or collections of objects as long as they can be seen by the
senses or their extensions (or otherwise provide some sort of experiential
evidence that can be videotaped). Thus this collective empiricism also
includes wholes that can be videotaped (for example, an entire ecosystem,
which is a real collective system of “matter” in the second sense, can be
videotaped even though it’s not just an individual holon—as Upper Right
empiricism requires). In other words, this collective empiricism applies to
any Lower Right reality. Systems theory and the epistemology that it has
developed is a form of collective empiricism. And, as we have seen, there
has always been something of a battle between atomism and systems theory
in science, because there is a very real difference between the Upper Right
quadrant and the Lower Right quadrant. Both atomism and systems theory
have developed methodologies that adequately get at their respective
realities (that is, empiricism is aimed at the Upper Right and systems theory
at the Lower Right), and clearly, both of them need to be included.
Although champions of the exterior or objective domains have always
claimed a dominant or even sole access to any “real reality,” there have
always been geniuses who have claimed that we have access to incredibly
important realities that need to be embraced in the interior or subjective
domains. In general, these approaches are often called “phenomenological.”
Like their exterior, material correlates, they have often been divided into
methods that approach the individual interior (Upper Left) and those that
approach collective interiors (Lower Left).
Individual phenomenological approaches include the methodologies
that have attempted to deal with the human mind, or mental realities. Well
known among these are psychoanalysis, structuralism, humanisticexistential therapy, other forms of psychological therapy, and, of course,
phenomenology itself. In all of them, some version of introspection or

“looking within” is employed (since this area involves the interior of
minds), as well as ways for other individuals to reproduce these
introspective realities in their own case, so that these results can be checked
or verified to some degree. Especially important for any sort of genuine
Showing Up is the discovery of developmental structuralism—the
discovery of ways to investigate the actual structures of the mind (since
they cannot be directly videotaped).
We looked at these structures when I outlined the 6 major structures of
Growing Up. As I noted, these structures were discovered only around one
hundred years ago (since they cannot be seen merely by looking within),
but their importance for understanding the mind—and its various
approaches to reality—cannot be overestimated. These phenomenological
methods, which approach Upper Left minds and their interiors are thus
crucial for any sort of holistic access to truth.
We also find phenomenological approaches to collective,
intersubjective, or cultural realities as well. These approaches, since they
deal with the Lower Left (collectives of subjective minds—that is,
intersubjective cultures), embrace an enormous number of disciplines,
including cultural studies, ethnomethodology, semiotics, law, and sociology,
among others. These intersubjective, cultural, or Lower Left realities are
incredibly numerous and include everything from shared values to meaning,
language, social norms, customs, habitus (cultural habits), as well as
Heidegger’s approach to Dasein (cultural being) and Foucault’s study of
structures of (cultural) power. Since there are various cultural or subcultural
contexts for almost every mental phenomenon, the study of these contexts
—often called “cultural studies”—is invariably important for any sort of
inclusive methodology.
These four approaches to epistemology (empiricism, systems theory,
phenomenology, and cultural studies) are indeed so fundamental because
they address the inside and the outside (the subjective and the objective) of
the individual and the collective (the singular and the plural). In other
words, they address the 4 quadrants, which are indeed the 4 major
dimension/perspectives of reality. And the fact that each of these four

epistemologies has developed a powerful methodology for accessing a
different dimension demonstrates the reality of those dimensions.
Precisely because there are different major dimension/perspectives of
reality, when different epistemologies latch onto them, people often get into
fights about which dimension/perspective is the most important, or which is
the only real one—for example, the battle between atomism and systems
theory (individual versus collective) in science, not to mention the battle
between subjective and objective (which includes mind versus brain).
Given this tendency of partisans of one quadrant to deny the reality of the
others, it is especially important that we include a genuine Showing Up for
all the quadrants. Especially if we are talking about a Big Wholeness, we
want to make sure that each area of that Big Wholeness (Waking Up,
Growing Up, Opening Up, Cleaning Up, and Showing Up) is as complete
and whole as it can be. And this means that we should make a thorough
study of each of those areas, so we will know all the aspects that need to be
included in each of them. Think of Growing Up, for example, and the care
that was needed to discover all the various structures of the mind’s
development that must be included—and once we had them, we needed to
embrace them all. The same is true with Showing Up. We need to carefully
include all the various aspects of Showing Up (all 4 quadrants), and given
the warfare between partisans of a particular quadrant, this can take a bit of
work.
Hopefully this chapter has given you a broad understanding of the
various areas that need to be included in an authentic and inclusive
Showing Up—and that especially means the inside and the outside of both
the individual and the collective—that is, the 4 quadrants. We saw how
many other realities depend on those quadrants, from the 1st-person, 2ndperson, and 3rd-person perspectives to the 1-2-3 of Spirit, such as Christ’s
speaking as, to, and about God. The quadrants are so fundamental because
they involve two of the most fundamental oppositions in all of existence—
inside versus outside (or subject versus object) and individual versus
collective (or singular versus plural). We can’t find one of those pairs
without its opposite—subjects always arise and exist with objects, and

individuals always arise and exist with collectives. This is why the 4
quadrants go “all the up, all the way down,” and why so many other
systems depend on or even include them.
Now you can more easily understand why every single thought that you
have is plugged into all 4 quadrants of your own being. Every time you
have a single subjective thought (in your Upper Left mind)—such as “It’s
time for me to watch my favorite podcast”—you are also activating some
aspect of your objective brain physiology (in the Upper Right). And further,
not only does every Upper Right object have a correlate in the Upper Left
subjective quadrant (every brain state has a corresponding mind state) but it
also occurs in the context of a Lower Right collective or system of objects
—every Upper Right object has a Lower Right interobjective correlated
context. And furthermore, every Lower Right interobjective system has one
or more correlates not just in its own Upper Right object domain but also in
the Lower Left, intersubjective, cultural domain (as we saw with Lenski’s
research on the evolution of artifacts). In other words, every phenomenon in
the real world always involves all 4 quadrants, perfectly tetra-enacting and
tetra-evolving.
And while all of those realities might appear to be separate and all by
themselves, each of these 4 perspectives are deeply interwoven with, and
lean upon, all the others. So, in every moment of your life, you are plugged
into the entire universe at its most basic and fundamental dimensions and
perspectives. No matter how alone you might feel, at every moment of your
life, you are truly and actually at home in the universe.
And—to move directly to our next topic—you can directly know this
fundamental “at-home-ness” not through just one intelligence but through
many types of intelligence. You are, in fact, at least a dozen times smarter
than you ever thought.
So let’s now look at how you can engage in Opening Up to all of these
many intelligences—what do you say?
OceanofPDF.com

12
Opening Up
OUR MULTIPLE INTELLIGENCES
We have seen that it is necessary to study each quadrant fully, so that we
know all the elements that need to be included in each of them in order to
Show Up for all of them. One of the things that happens when we do this
with, for example, the Upper Left quadrant, is that we discover that our
consciousness undergoes an evolutionary development through various
stages of Growing Up. And further, there are pathologies that can develop at
each of these stages, and dealing with them is the process of Cleaning Up.
A thorough study of the Upper Left also discloses the extreme importance
of Waking Up. Finally, including all of those areas (Waking Up, Growing
Up, and Cleaning Up) is necessary for a full Showing Up—which moves us
very close to a full-fledged Big Wholeness.
There is one other area that a complete study of the Upper Left also
gives us, and that is what we call “Opening Up.” This involves becoming
aware of our multiple intelligences and fully Opening Up to all of them. As
human beings, we don’t just have one basic intelligence, often called
“cognitive intelligence,” the one measured by the all-important IQ test.
Rather, recent research (by, for example, Harvard psychologist Howard
Gardner) suggests that we have up to a dozen different intelligences. In
addition to cognitive intelligence—which is still important—we also have
emotional intelligence, moral intelligence, musical intelligence, aesthetic
intelligence, intrapersonal intelligence, kinesthetic or bodily intelligence,

mathematical intelligence, social or interpersonal intelligence, values
intelligence, and spiritual intelligence, among others. These are additional
intelligences that we all have available to us.
There is a good deal of argument and debate in developmental circles
about the total number of intelligences we have (some others that have been
suggested include linguistic, psychosexual, faith, self-concept or ego,
gender, worldview, willpower, and motivation or needs intelligence, among
several others). But the eleven intelligences that I just listed are widely
agreed upon.[1]
I now want to briefly go over this process of Opening Up, since it does
provide a new and very important type of Wholeness to our awareness. I
will do this fairly quickly, however, since it’s not that hard to see and
understand. But don’t let this brevity confuse you into thinking that
Opening Up is not an important area of Big Wholeness, since that would be
a very mistaken conclusion. Next to Growing Up and Waking Up, Opening
Up is easily as important as any area of a Big Wholeness.
EVOLUTION AND OUR MULTIPLE INTELLIGENCES
One of the basic reasons why we apparently have multiple intelligences
available to us is that as we evolved over hundreds of thousands of years,
life constantly presented us with several fundamental questions—What is
real? What is the right thing to do? What do I find attractive or beautiful?
What is that other person thinking?—that, as a species, we found ourselves
attempting to answer, over and over again. As we gained skill in answering
a particular type of question, we evolved an intelligence for doing so. We
developed not only cognitive intelligence (What am I thinking or aware of
right now?) but also emotional intelligence (What am I feeling right now?),
aesthetic intelligence (What do I find attractive or beautiful?), moral
intelligence (What is the right thing to do?), and spiritual intelligence (What
is the most important and ultimately real thing for me right now?). Whether
you look at them as a Lamarckian or a Darwinian inheritance, humans
developed and passed on around a dozen of these intelligences, which they

used any time that one of those major questions came up. (See table 7 for a
list of basic intelligences and the fundamental questions they evolved to
answer.) We still have those intelligences available to us, and Opening Up
to them is realizing this fact and stepping into our own larger awareness.
TABLE 7. Our Multiple Intelligences and the Life Questions They Address
Intelligence

Life question

Aesthetic intelligence What do I find attractive or beautiful?
Cognitive intelligence What am I thinking or aware of right now?
Ego intelligence

Who am I?

Emotional intelligence What am I feeling right now?
Intrapersonal
intelligence

What am I internally aware of?

Kinesthetic or bodily
intelligence

What does my body feel?

Mathematical
intelligence

If I get two apples from one tree and three
apples from another, how many apples do I
have?

Moral intelligence

What is the right thing to do?

Motivational needs
intelligence

What is it that I most need right now?

Musical intelligence

What does that music say to me?

Social or
interpersonal
intelligence

What is that other person thinking?

Spiritual intelligence

What is the most important and ultimately
real thing (of ultimate concern) for me right
now?

Values intelligence

What do I value most about this situation?

Your thinking capacity—or cognitive intelligence—is not the only type
of intelligence that you possess. Making room for these other intelligences
is indeed to Open Up to the rich variety of intelligences that you have
available, as well as the many different capacities that you possess because
of these intelligences (capacities for cognitive, emotional, moral, aesthetic,
and spiritual growth and learning opened up by these intelligences).
I think that with this new inclusion to our Big Wholeness, we are
starting to see just how truly “big” this Big Wholeness can be—and just
how high and deep and wide our awareness genuinely is, or certainly can
be, if we know where to look.
So gaining this Big Wholeness is certainly something that we should
want in our lives. What would be the opposite of this full Wholeness? How
about global suicide, which is now a possibility?
OceanofPDF.com

13
Very Dark Shadows Today
The human species is the first species in existence capable of fully
committing suicide—that is, of completely destroying itself on a global
scale. Literally, the total destruction of humanity: this became possible only
in the modern Industrial Age (orange), and the point at which this became
glaringly obvious marked the official beginning of the postmodern
Information Age (green).
MUTUAL ASSURED DESTRUCTION
The first very concrete example of the possibility of global suicide was
MAD (mutual assured destruction), which was the intentional
military/political stance that the United States and the Soviet Union took
toward each other during the Cold War. Both sides believed that the Cold
War could be kept “cold” and could be prevented from becoming “hot”
because no matter who fired its atomic weapons first, the other side could
retaliate with enough nuclear power that both parties to the conflict were
guaranteed to be totally and mutually destroyed (thus “mutual assured
destruction”). Either the atomic blasts themselves or the nuclear winter that
would follow would result in the death of essentially all humans, and much
of the rest of life on earth. This was an absolutely insane attitude, of course;
what’s more insane was the relentless logic that showed just how inevitable
such an approach was.

This all came to a head—and first became very obvious—with the
Cuban Missile Crisis, which could be said to inaugurate the Postmodern
Age. Here, during the “thirteen days that shook the world”—in 1963—the
United States and the Soviet Union were driven relentlessly toward an
actual nuclear conflict, a crisis that started when the Soviet Union moved
intermediate-range nuclear missiles into their satellite state Cuba—which is
merely a few miles from mainland United States. President John F.
Kennedy was charged with deciding how to respond.[1] What’s so telling
about this crisis—and what makes it arguably the official beginning of the
postmodern world—is that, no matter that each side wanted desperately not
to pull the trigger that would cause both sides to go up in a globe-engulfing
mushroom cloud, nonetheless each step they took to prevent this destruction
drew them inevitably closer and closer to a world-destroying conflagration.
This crisis is such a postmodern-defining event because both sides fully
knew that this was happening, and yet that didn’t matter. They both knew
that they wanted above all else not to start World War III (with its
guaranteed MAD), and they both took the very best steps they could to help
prevent it—and they both watched as each of those steps nonetheless kept
taking them closer to mutual destruction. What on earth do you do when
each step you take to prevent something actually brings you closer and
closer to that which you are trying to prevent—and you’re perfectly aware
of that, and that doesn’t help?
Another thing that makes the Cuban Missile Crisis arguably the official
beginning of the Postmodern Age is that it was relentlessly negative in tone,
whereas virtually all modern thinkers were relentlessly positive and
progressive. Adding to the formation of the postmodern world were
poststructuralism, from such French philosophers as Derrida, Foucault, and
Lyotard), and the creation of digital/computer technology (and the
development of Artificial Intelligence, which many experts felt would lead
to the end of humanity), but the Cuban Missile Crisis was the first time we
were immediately threatened with the destruction of the entire planet,
making it as negative as negative can get.

These thirteen days of insanity indeed marked the transition from the
modern world to the beginning of the postmodern. Modernity—the orange,
rational, achievement-oriented stage, enthusiastically dedicated to progress,
profit, excellence, and meritocracy, grounded in verifiable truth and
dedicated to the proposition that people everywhere should have equal
opportunity to life’s bounty—collapsed as the official philosophy of the
leading edge of cultural evolution. The leading edge shifted at the beginning
of postmodernity to the green, postrational, truth-uncertain, relativistic,
egalitarian, multicultural attitude. Green was dedicated not to equal
opportunity but to equal outcome, and hence wedded to a wish for justice
for all victims (a wish created by a heart of gold but with the unintended
consequence of making victimhood sacred and something to be actively
sought). In the modern world, only winners were rewarded; in the
postmodern world, only victims are. Where the general attitude of
modernity was freedom, profit, achievement, and happy progress in truth,
the general attitude of postmodernity is VUCA—volatility, uncertainty,
complexity, and ambiguity. Where modernity introduced advancement,
growth, antipoverty wealth, and an avalanche of progress in almost every
area it touched, postmodernity saw the downsides of each of them and was
left to pick up the pieces (something that it, or any other 1st-tier stage was
ill-equipped to do adequately).
Thus the enthusiastic optimism of modernity gave way to the
pessimistic downturn of postmodernity, anchored not in truth, beauty,
progress, or profit but in an awareness of death, decay, inequality, and
power and the resultant demand for social justice. (And the social justice
demanded was not the freedom of equal opportunity, which orange offered,
but the forced equality of a guaranteed equal outcome, which green wants,
and which necessarily must be forced because human beings are vastly
different from each other, and thus any extensive equality is the denial of
diversity and demands social force.) As we saw, these two—freedom and
equality—are opposites. Precisely because people are extraordinarily
diverse, you can have freedom or equality, but you can’t have both. 2nd-tier
Integral will carefully integrate these two values, but orange and green are

fated to simply fight it out, guaranteeing that there will be culture wars until
a tipping point puts global Integral into place as the new leading edge.
Where modernity pioneered progress in a stunning number of areas—
and almost no one saw or understood the unintended consequences of this
progress, some of which were, in fact, globally suicidal, such as industrial
pollution—postmodernity was faced with incontrovertible evidence that the
bill had come due, and the bill was global in scope (from military MAD to
collapse of the biosphere to rampant capitalistic greed to nuclear disaster to
the realization that Artificial Intelligence itself would possibly, even likely,
destroy humanity).
The fact that humanity could, and very likely might, completely destroy
itself—literally!—was a shocking realization, radically new in all of
humankind’s history. Never before had any of humanity’s actions resulted in
the possibility of a totally global self-destruction, and never before had such
a possibility even entered humanity’s awareness.
This realization began to seep into the world at large, drenching it with
death. And this marked a profound change in human nature itself. Humans
were now the species that could become extinct—at their own hands—and
they knew it. How do you live with that?
Thus, where most of the leading-edge thinkers of modernity spent their
time pondering ways to advance their field to ever greater excellence, most
of the leading-edge thinkers of postmodernity spent their time desperately
thinking about how to correct the actions introduced by modernity. If, with
modernity, humanity started smoking, with postmodernity, humanity
discovered that it had lung cancer. And what made it so deeply shocking
was that there was no cure for cancer.
What all of these elements have in common is that they represent the
very first emergent realities of an evolution that, with orange, finally
reached a global, universal level—and, with green, became aware of the
costs of doing so (many were the unintended consequences of orange but
nonetheless were devastating). Humanity itself, starting, perhaps over a
million years ago, with a social reality that embraced no more than around
forty people in a small, local hunting clan or a tribe (crimson archaic),

evolved through ever-larger social holons, from extended hunting tribes of
several hundred people (magenta magic), to large multitribe villages of
several thousand (red magic-mythic), to beginning megatribe military
empires of millions of people (amber mythic), to late military empires and
globally interconnected, early modern nation-states with millions of people
worldwide (umber mythic-rational),[2] to a universal, scientific
Enlightenment originally touching millions and eventually everybody on
the planet (orange rational), to a postmodern global village of a stupendous
7 billion people (green pluralistic).
Each of those transitions marked major evolutionary leaps; but
particularly profound was the leap from ethnocentric (and lower) to
worldcentric (and higher)—that is, the leap from traditional amber mythic
to modern orange rational—because this marked the first time that human
evolution had reached global universal dimensions, where each human’s
being and identity was inextricably tied to that of every other human on the
planet (not to mention the life of the planet itself). The emergence of these
global levels (the worldcentric universal stages beginning with orange and
moving to green) marked a stunning shift in human evolution itself. At first,
especially with worldcentric orange, humans mostly saw the major
advances of such a leap. This indeed was the beginning of modernity,
particularly marked by the Western Enlightenment with its cognitive
advances seen in things like the invention of almost all the modern,
universal sciences (for example, physics, astronomy, chemistry, and
biology), its moral advances seen in things like the end of slavery and its
emphasis on universal rights for all humans, and its economic advances
seen in things like capitalism, which for all of its problems, did involve a
massive increase in profits for the owners. These were the beginning stages
of a development now going global and universal. There were downsides to
all of them, of course, as there are downsides to every level of development
(the dialectic of progress), but for the most part, none of these downsides
were seen or understood at first—and certainly they were not believed to
mark the possible end of everything.

The reason I compare this to cigarette smoking is that the downsides of
modernity usually did not show up at the start. It took centuries to see some
of the truly alarming and mostly unintended consequences of the awesome
leap of global modernity. That realization, I’m suggesting, marked the
official start of postmodernity—the very name itself, “postmodernity,” was
as much a deep wish-fulfillment as anything else: “My god, look what we
have done!—and how can we correct this modern nightmare? We can’t just
get rid of modern, so we’ll go postmodern!”
For example, none of the ugly ecological effects of industrial capitalism
were initially obvious. If the direct link between, say, carbon dioxide
production and global warming (with its potential ultimate downside of a
complete biospheric collapse and the end of humanity and most life on
earth) were fully seen and understood right from the start, the actual
unfolding of industrialization might have gone very differently. No matter
how ugly capitalism is pictured by its critics, no CEO is demented enough
to take actions that they know will directly kill their children and
grandchildren.
But it is only recently—deep into a postmodern world—that we have
sufficient scientific evidence to clearly establish the dire consequences of
global warming. That is why I say that if, with modernity, humanity started
smoking, with postmodernity, it discovered it had lung cancer. And the real
shocker is, again, there is no cure for cancer, as the Cuban Missile Crisis
came one small jot away from decisively demonstrating. But it did manage
to sear this awareness of our global mortality into the human mind
indefinitely, a place very soon to be taken by the threat of a population
bomb, then global ecological devastation, and then the possibility of
humanity’s suicide through Artificial Intelligence, among others. Welcome
to the Postmodern Age.
This brings us directly to the point that we have been discussing about
modernity and postmodernity—namely, both are in the range of a
development that for the first time in human history had gone global and
worldcentric, and that now many of humanity’s problems are being created
by this global scope itself. The global reach of the progress of modernity

created global problems. When human awareness went from ethnocentric to
worldcentric not only did humanity start to benefit from the amazing
advances and positive benefits of a global awareness but also its major
problems became global in scope.
And for the first time in history, this meant that humanity now had the
means to destroy itself on a global scale. Not only is the modern and
postmodern world more evolved than that of our archaic tribal ancestors but
it also can be suicidally sick in ways that our ancestors literally could not
even imagine. You can kill only so many other human beings with a bow
and arrow; but the red nuclear button is a “global delete” button: push that
once and humanity itself disappears. Is this good news or bad news?
Well, both of course. The good news is that the average person now
possesses a greater amount of being, awareness, and identity due to a
continuing and evolving Growing Up, as well as the advances and gains
that have resulted in, among many other things, an increase in average
human life span from less than twenty-five years in the first tribes to close
to seventy-five years in people everywhere today. (Are the critics of
modernity ready to give up those extra fifty years of their own life?
Whenever an adult critic of modernity asks me, “Do you know where we’d
be today if we were still at a tribal level?” I usually answer, “Yes, we’d be
dead.”)
But there are indeed downsides to modernity, and the bad news is,
welcome to the Cuban Missile Crisis, MAD, global warming that can
potentially lead to biospheric collapse, and an advance in Artificial
Intelligence that might be the death of us all. Truly, no era prior to orange
modernity could have produced anything remotely like this.
I’ve spent a fair amount of time going over this point about humanity
becoming global, because there is one thing that is just as catastrophic as
any of the downsides of modernity—and that is to look at this issue (and its
many problems) only from the Right-hand or exterior quadrants, where we
find those things that can be seen with the human senses or their extensions
—that is, “matter” in its second, extended meaning, which is anything that
can be videotaped. Notice one important truth about all this: although we

can track the increase in the size of human societies by looking at their
exteriors alone (their objective dimensions and their measurable quantities),
we can also track their development by looking at the equally real interior
realities, which unfold, as we have seen, from archaic to magic to mythic to
rational to pluralistic to integral—or from egocentric to ethnocentric to
worldcentric to integral (which is truly global—what we’ll call “globalIntegral” or “global 2nd tier”).
Now human beings commonly and typically track these issues only by
looking at exteriors. They look at population growth, or they track
particular cultures in their geopolitical locations, or they track the size of
the culture, the amount of its money in circulation or its annual birthrates,
and so on, and all too often they completely ignore the correlative interior
development that is also occurring. Or, at any rate, that should be occurring.
But all too often interior development does not keep pace with exterior
development, and the real problem is that we don’t even track this interior
development at all; we simply ignore the interiors altogether and can’t even
see the problem—and thus we have no effective solutions.
We have abundant evidence that just because today every human being
is born into a global village, this does not mean that every human being
starts with a global awareness. We know that is not true at all. A genuinely
global capacity in awareness is the product of about six major stages of
human development (6-to-8 on average—which we have also summarized
as four stages—selfish or egocentric, care or ethnocentric, universal care or
worldcentric, and integrated or integral). To say “Everybody alive today is
living in a global village” tells us absolutely nothing about where any given
person’s consciousness is actually located. Is it at one of several stages of a
largely selfish and power-driven egocentric, or at one of several stages of a
culturally imperialist or jihadist ethnocentric, or is it starting to move into
truly global worldcentric stages with modern orange, and even more global
ones with worldcentric green, or finally a comprehensive and integrated
global with turquoise global-Integral?
We saw that part of any global problem today is the fact that some 60 to
70 percent of the world’s population are living at ethnocentric or lower

stages of development—in other words, their consciousness is considerably
less than global. Their exteriors (technology and artifacts) might be global,
but their interiors (consciousness and culture) definitely are not. These 60 to
70 percent may be living in a global village, but they are not living in a
global awareness. (And even worse, the percentage of the population at
turquoise global-Integral, a 2nd-tier stage, is less than 8 percent, and yet
these stages are the only ones that can actually start to solve some of the
problems created by 1st tier.) And none of this is to mention that leaving out
all Left-hand interiors also cuts out any approach to Waking Up to any
Enlightened states of consciousness. Usually these realities in the Left-hand
interiors are ignored when researchers examine planetwide problems;
nothing but Right-hand exteriors are taken into account.
Humanity, in other words, is suffering from a profound failure to Show
Up.
The central problem that human beings face today is not due primarily
to the fact that we exist in a global village, with its economics, finances,
trade, technology, education, and politics all being globally interwoven, of 7
billion people. The central problem is that the capacity to inhabit a level that
fully embraces this global reality is the result of several major stages of
interior human development, and at this time, less than 30 percent of the
population have developed to the worldcentric stages where this can be
done.[3] For those of us who are not yet able to adequately inhabit a global
level of awareness, this means that, as the title of one of Robert Kegan’s
books puts it (with exactly this problem in mind), we are “in over our
heads.” Kegan’s research indicates that three out of five people do not make
it to the modern worldcentric level. In other words, 60 to 70 percent of our
planetwide population cannot adequately respond to the level of complexity
and sophistication that is now present in, and fundamentally defines, the
worldcentric contours of the world. In short, the vast majority of the world’s
population is “in over their heads.”
But the real problem is even worse. The real problem is that we are not
even tracking this interior evolution; and so we have no idea that there is
even a problem, let alone what to do about it. We are not Showing Up

authentically. We are not inhabiting all the major dimensions of our own
being, especially the Left-hand dimensions—which is, at bottom, a truly
cowardly stance (laced with a genuine fear of the realities that we have
denied existence).
Why is this such a problem? Where cultures have reached an orange
worldcentric level of development, they truly wish to treat all people fairly,
regardless of race, color, sex, gender, ethnicity, or creed (that is, without an
ethnocentric, racist, sexist, homophobic, or xenophobic prejudice).
Nonetheless some 60 or 70 percent of the world’s citizens have exactly that
ethnocentric or lower awareness, with its inherently narrow drives, limited
values, and imperialist and jihadist views (often slipping into their more
extremist versions, from ISIS to Hamas to Hezbollah). And yet these
interior levels are not being tracked at all, and thus the path forward from
ethnocentric bias to a more widely shared worldcentric fairness is barely
known or understood.
People who do manage to be at one of these more developed (orange or
green) levels assume that everybody else can think the way that they do
(after all, we’re all equally members of the same global village), and yet the
vast majority of people cannot do so—but that is not taken into account at
all, and the results are seriously disastrous. And that is not because there is
something intrinsically wrong with any of these lower stages—being five
years old is not an illness—but because it fails to track these realities, our
culture contains no information or wisdom on how to advance through these
stages to a person’s own highest worldcentric potentials and greatest global
possibilities, leaving everybody to flounder in this deserted wilderness.
So, in the worldwide population, while the exterior, Right-hand
quadrants have reached global orange levels in, for example, their
technology and almost all their artifacts, in the interior, Left-hand
quadrants, reaching a global level in awareness is mostly only a possibility,
a potential, a maybe—and something most people have to discover for
themselves (since their cultures are not Showing Up for them). Worse, even
in cultures whose leading-edge governing bodies originate mostly at orange
or green, many of their major social problems stem from populations that,

through no real fault of their own, are still stuck at the pre-worldcentric
stages (crimson, red, amber), and form huge pockets of poorly developed
subcultures at those earlier levels of development, with all the crime,
poverty, and destitution that implies.
A real part of the problem here is that government, as well as many
other national and international organizations (including businesses), often
operates at an ethnocentric level. Although the science and technology that
they use are indeed global and worldcentric, their own interior motives are
often red power-tribal or amber jihadist-traditional (and this applies also to
military organizations, financial systems, international politics, and
transnational businesses; while their technology has reached global
worldcentric levels, their leaders often have not). Humanity, in other words,
is not living up to its own profound interior potentials. And this is
compounded by the fact that we are not even tracking this interior
dimension at all! We have no idea that this arrested development is
occurring because we don’t acknowledge this development in the first
place.
We have thoroughly—but thoroughly—refused to Show Up. And it gets
worse…
THE REAL SINS OF MODERNITY
Any individual in the Upper Left, as well as any collective culture in the
Lower Left, who is at an orange worldcentric (or higher) stage of
development, really does try to treat all people fairly—regardless of race,
color, sex, or creed. At such an interior level of development, slavery, for
example, is simply unthinkable: there is absolutely no way that you can
treat a person with worldcentric fairness and enslave them. That is why it
was only when humanity reached the orange stage of its development that
slavery was, for the first time in history, outlawed in every orange country
on the entire planet. Slavery began with the first humans themselves
(according to Lenski’s data, around 15 percent of the first tribal societies
had slavery). From that red magic-tribal start, slavery dramatically

expanded during the amber ethnocentric era (with a stunning 90 percent of
some clusters of amber cultures having slavery). One-third of the
population of Athens itself, vaunted home of democracy, were slaves.
In the very early phases of orange modernity, slavery started to become
global in scale. Modern transportation systems (from ships to railroads)
made worldwide slavery a hot trade. But at the same time, the Left-hand
quadrants (of consciousness and culture) produced a significant number of
individuals whose interiors were also starting to reach orange worldcentric
stages, and those individuals drove an increasingly powerful abolition
movement that succeeded in every country around the world that had begun
to be moved by orange values of freedom. So, as usual in human history, it
wasn’t just a global economic system that drove slavery but also less-thanglobal levels of moral development (which is also why virtually every
preglobal and premodern country had slavery at one time or another). And
thus again, we see a modern problem created when modern global
technologies and systems in the Right Hand were used by people who were
motivated by less-than-global premodern drives and values in the Left
Hand.
And notice that making slavery illegal doesn’t fully address the
existence of racist activity in a culture. Thus, as we saw when we examined
the culture wars in the United States, we have made it illegal to engage in
any activity that is explicitly racist. But there was a time when not only was
it legal to create hotels that were different for white people and black people
but there were actually Jim Crow laws mandating them. There was, at that
time, legal, systemic racism embedded in the Right-hand quadrants. But all
of those laws have now been removed—there is no longer a legal systemic
racism in the United States. But as social justice advocates remind us, there
is still an awful lot of racism in the United States, because erasing racism
from the Right-hand legal system does nothing to change a person’s Lefthand, interior value structure. You can make an exterior behavior illegal,
but you cannot make thinking in racist terms an illegal act (you can’t outlaw
forms of thinking).

And the people who enforce the Right-hand legal system will still be
enforcing the law according to their own Left-hand interior value system;
and thus, for example, although there is no law that tells police to arrest
blacks more often than whites, that racist act still often occurs. And a police
officer whose interior development is at an ethnocentric level is more likely
to engage in this behavior. So, we will never get rid of racism until we’ve
addressed the 60 percent of the population who are still at ethnocentric or
lower stages of development and still think in racist terms. The same is true
for sexist (or patriarchal) thinking, homophobia, transphobia, and so on.
That’s why we need to consciously track interior or Left-hand development
in each culture and why a merely Right-hand approach will never be able to
accomplish this.
So we’ve fixed the problem in the Right-hand quadrants (moving our
exterior, Right-hand technology and artifacts to global worldcentric levels),
but we haven’t touched it in the Left-hand quadrants. I want to suggest that
the same is true for almost all our troubles today that are globally
problematic, even globally suicidal. These globally suicidal problems are
due primarily to a strong imbalance between progress in the Right-hand
quadrants, which has reached at least an orange worldcentric level,
particularly in technology and artifacts, and progress in the Left-hand
quadrants, where some 60 percent have not reached a worldcentric level—
and that imbalance is likely to kill us all.
This is why such a special effort has to be made to help the interiors of
consciousness and culture keep pace with their exterior technology and
artifacts. All too often, as we have seen, development in the average Right
Hand runs far ahead of the average Left Hand that is using it, and when that
happens, much lower—and much less caring, less compassionate, less
loving, and more domineering, more oppressive, and more exploitive—
drives and values in the Left Hand end up inhabiting and using those Righthand technologies. Thus, when, on any sort of large scale, the Right-hand
technology and artifacts are orange modern-global (or higher) and the Lefthand motivation and drives using them are premodern and less than orange,

the result is the classic global (and usually suicidal) problem of the
contemporary world.
This is where we especially see the potentially catastrophic problem
with human artifacts. Usually a genius, or several of them, at the leadingedge level of Growing Up, will conceive and help create a version of a very
sophisticated artifact in the Right Hand (for example, an automobile,
airplane, computer, or the internet), but once the artifacts are created, almost
anybody, at virtually any level of Growing Up, can use them. You yourself
don’t have to be able to conceive and manufacture a computer—once it’s
there, it’s yours to use no matter what your level of Growing Up. That is
why exterior, Right-hand technology and artifacts can run so far ahead of
the degree of consciousness and culture in the Left Hand. (Marx created
virtually all his theory based on this tension.)
Our planet is being assaulted and crippled by people who have access to
orange Right-hand worldcentric technology and artifacts, but who
themselves are at pre-worldcentric and pre-orange Left-hand levels of
development and either can’t see or don’t care about global realities. This is
killing all of us.
Next, I will take some examples of modern, global suicidal problems
and demonstrate how each of them is the result of a Right-hand science and
technology development that is at orange worldcentric (or higher) coupled
with a Left-hand development that is at pre-worldcentric, pre-orange, and
preglobal levels. I’ll start with the climate crisis as an obvious example.
It’s not that we don’t know enough about global climate to be able to
spot the problems that are occurring here. Very clearly, the Right-hand
results of orange modernity—particularly the industrial revolution and its
polluting byproducts—have put too much of the greenhouse gases into the
atmosphere, which has increased the earth’s atmospheric temperature. But
our Left-hand response to this problem has been atrocious. There is some
disagreement in scientific circles about the degree of severity of the climate
problem, but no argument at all that it is very real and extremely
threatening. (A recent poll of experts around the entire world showed that

almost a full half of them think that global warming will kill all of humanity
—all of it!).[4]
But many people doubt that there will be any catastrophic consequences
at all—or worse, they think that global warming is a “joke.” These tend to
be people who are at ethnocentric levels, or lower, of cognitive and moral
development. Somebody who thinks worldcentrically and can understand
science will have no problem looking at the evidence of universal weather
patterns and making up their mind. But since 60 percent do not make it to
that modern, worldcentric level in the Left Hand, we’re going to have some
real problems responding adequately to the issue. The Right-hand
component of global warming is obvious (it is clearly due to an orange
worldcentric technology that affects the entire planet); what is not so
obvious is the component of the problem that stems from interior Left-hand
development being at pre-orange, pre-worldcentric, and pre-universal levels
of development. But then, how would we even know that, since we don’t
track interiors at all?
Another global problem is the modern business system. Almost the
entire material artifact system of modern business—built and put in motion
as an orange Right-hand system anchored in material money (though itself
largely conceived by global modern geniuses such as Adam Smith)—could
nonetheless be owned, used, and run by people whose interiors were, for
instance, deeply egocentric red, and who believe that greed is good and
survival of the fittest rules the day. When this happens, the entire orange
Right-hand business system is run by people with pre-orange Left-hand
barbaric motives, and as a result, the system spews toxic waste (emotional
to environmental) everywhere. Or, at a notch slightly better but still deeply
problematic, orange business can be run by people at amber ethnocentric
with its intense “us versus them” drives, and who believe that it’s a “dogeat-dog” world. They have a “fight-to-the-finish” attitude, and they are out
to conquer the planet (or at least their own market) and are dedicated to
embedding an overly aggressive competition into the world at every point
(and to hell with the environment).

We should take time to notice that most critics of modern capitalism talk
as if capitalism itself were nothing but a massive source of “greed,” which
they claim to be inherent and unavoidable in capitalistic business itself—
whereas it is inherent only in businesses run by management who are at
preglobal red or amber. This is the major reason that capitalism has been
disliked by so many intellectuals for such a long time. When business
management and culture reach to orange, and especially green, the moral
stance of business changes to things like fostering sustainability and
increasing benefits to employees, proving that such egocentric and
ethnocentric vulgarities are not inherent in business or capitalism itself. The
problem has the same structure as that of all modern crises—a set of orange
economic and global artifacts in the Right Hand being driven by people
whose needs and values are at premodern red and amber in the Left Hand.
Again, it is easy for this situation to develop, given how simple it is to
evolve Right-hand artifacts quite ahead of Left-hand realities. The only real
problem here is the grand disjuncture of Right-hand artifacts and Left-hand
wisdom. When we see the work being done by Robert Kegan and his DDO
(deliberately developmental organization)—which we’ll investigate in just a
moment—we see that this disjuncture can be overcome and businesses can
start behaving with genuine wisdom. When the interiors of a company are
all at orange or green (or higher), it starts to have a truly balanced culture,
and capitalism finds its real home.
Cybercrime, which the 2019 World Economic Forum listed as one of
the top three acute risks to the world, has an analysis similar to that of
climate crisis and the ills of capitalism. Cybercrime involves the use of a
quite sophisticated (orange or higher) level of Right-hand computer
technology by mostly egocentric-criminal (red) minds or by ethnocentric,
nationally obsessed, military minds (amber). Again, once the artifact is in
existence—in this case, super-sophisticated computer hardware—anybody
can use it, including those with very nefarious ends in mind. I mention this
example not only because it is so obviously a case of the typical suicidal
situation that I have been describing (Right-hand artifact development
running far ahead of Left-hand consciousness and wisdom) but also because

most people are unaware of the grave risks that it poses. Suffice it to say
that a clever cyberattack on the United States, for example, could easily
shut down the electricity to the entire country for days on end. Various
degrees of these types of attacks are already occurring all over the world on
a daily basis. The fact that the World Economic Forum rates cybercrime so
highly in its ranking of serious world threats (it’s in the top three, right after
the climate emergency and nuclear threat) should alert us to this situation.
The same thing is obviously true of MAD (or the nuclear threat in
general). If ever there was a situation driven by global, worldcentric, Righthand science and artifacts coupled with a preglobal, pre-worldcentric, Lefthand interior motivation (amber or red), MAD is it. Somehow, in the
intervening years since the Cuban Missile Crisis, we managed to operate—
at least temporarily—from an interior level of worldcentric development
that was high enough to prevent World War III (the collapse of the Soviet
Union in 1989 also helped prevent nuclear war). But what will happen
when, say, Iran develops nuclear technology in the Right Hand but remains
driven by its ethnocentric and fundamentalist religious interiors in the Left
Hand? Or what if North Korea, which obviously has a Right-hand global
nuclear capacity and a Left-hand idiot for a ruler, decides to pull the
trigger? No wonder the World Economic Forum rates the nuclear threat as
the second-greatest threat to the world’s existence, right behind the climate
crisis as the greatest.
The major point in this section is that Right-hand material realities,
artifacts, and technologies often run far ahead of the Left-hand morals and
wisdom needed to use them appropriately and responsibly—which is
compounded by the fact that we aren’t even tracking the Left-hand realities.
That is especially important, since it explains why the global level of
development brings with it the capacity to destroy humanity on an equally
global level. I’ve gone over some of the threats that could bring this about
—including climate crisis, cybercrime, and the doctrine of MAD (or
nuclear weapons in general). In each case, we glaringly see the results of
Right-hand global technology racing far ahead of Left-hand wisdom.

DELIBERATELY DEVELOPMENTAL CULTURE
The 2019 World Economic Forum’s global risk report lists five basic areas
of general risk and the top three acute risks. The five general areas are (1)
economic vulnerabilities, (2) geopolitical tensions, (3) societal and political
strains, (4) environmental fragilities, and (5) technological instabilities. The
three acute risks are (1) the climate emergency, (2) the nuclear threat, and
(3) cybercrime. Notice that every one of them involves nothing but the
Lower Right quadrant—the 3rd-person plural exteriors of collective
systems—the dynamic, interwoven systems of collective “its.” Among
many other problems with this list, it suggests that with all the major
problems facing humanity, 1st-person dimensions (“I,” “we”) or 2nd-person
dimensions (“you,” “thou,” “all of you”) have contributed nothing to them
—they are all just 3rd-person realities. So from “I” and “we” and “you,”
nothing has been taken; to “it” and “its,” all was given. As always, there are
partial truths in this view; but that it is the complete truth is one of the most
reductionistic, fragmented, broken, flatland worldviews that can be
imagined—and a pure example of the deep failure of humanity to Show Up.
Developmental studies has added another perspective to the problems
facing humanity—namely, the distinction between 1st-tier stages of
development and 2nd-tier stages. The definition of a 1st-tier stage is that it
is marked by the belief that its truth and values are the only real truth and
values; all the others are mistaken, childish, or just plain wrong. But then
there is the leap to 2nd tier. The stages starting with 2nd tier (such as globalIntegral) intuitively understand that each and every previous level is
significant and fully needed, if for no other reason than that each of them is
a stage in human development, and thus none of them can be skipped,
bypassed, or deleted. Just as in the sequence atoms, molecules, cells, and
organisms, you cannot go from atoms to cells and skip molecules, likewise
in human development you can’t go from red to green and skip amber or
orange. Starting with the stages at 2nd tier, this profound truth becomes
intuitively clear, and thus stages such as global-Integral are the first truly
holistic, inclusive, and comprehensive stages in human history.

Thus, the 2nd-tier global-Integral stages make the failure to fully Show
Up harder and harder to get away with. And because of this, they will very
likely instigate a stunningly profound worldwide transformation that is
finally Integral—which means that they will be the likes of which humanity
has never, but never, seen. Given the above definitions of 1st and 2nd tier,
wouldn’t you agree?
Robert Kegan and Lisa Laskow Lahey, in their book An Everyone
Culture, show what happens when businesses include in their corporate
culture an awareness of developmental stages and tie the exterior growth
and profits of the business to the interior developmental growth of its
employees. They found that when businesses do this, almost every measure
of the business’s success increases dramatically, including staff happiness,
reduced employee turnover, and degree of profits. Kegan, professor at the
Harvard Graduate School of Education, has spent his lifetime working with
organizations to help them become developmentally conscious, and he
concludes that the evidence overwhelmingly shows the importance of an
organization becoming a DDO (deliberately developmental organization). A
DDO pays attention not just to interiors but also to the actual stages of the
interiors, the actual levels of Growing Up, and they include that knowledge
(of the Upper Left) in the corporate culture (of the Lower Left)—both of
which are interior, Left-hand realities. When they do that, the real growth in
their human capital—as well as the real growth in the business itself—
becomes obvious to all concerned, and things begin explosively to improve.
Notice that Kegan and Laskow Lahey are fully aware of the necessity to
track realities and development not just in the Upper Left interior of an
individual, but in all 4 quadrants fully. In their book An Everyone Culture,
they explain that, during a particularly fruitful period of working with
several high-powered organizations to help them become DDOs (including
companies like Bridgewater, which The Economist pegged as “the most
successful hedge fund in human history”), they noticed that because they
had been focusing almost entirely on just the interior dimensions, they were
leaving out several other truly important dimensions, especially the exterior
ones. They had overcome the Western materialist bias of taking exteriors

alone to be real, but only by going to the other extreme and focusing only
on interiors (consciousness and culture). So they deliberately undertook a
course of Showing Up. As they explain, “Our colleague Ken Wilber has
created a four-box model, which has been a valuable heuristic for a more
comprehensive view of any complicated psychosocial phenomenon…. The
four-box heuristic invites people who are thinking about moving in the
direction of a DDO to keep their eyes on all four boxes, what Wilber refers
to as an ‘integral,’ or more adequately holistic, perspective.”[5] In other
words, to fully Show Up. And Kegan and Laskow Lahey know, from
experience, that this is actually something that takes some effort and
practice—as they say, in regard to Showing Up, “We are works in
progress.”[6]
Any truly Integral approach to our problems would maintain that our
society needs to become a DDC (deliberately developmental culture). And
this fits with what I was saying about human beings reaching global stages
of development—which, we noticed, means that not only our advances but
also our problems are now essentially global. Alan Watkins and I have a
term for these especially nasty global problems; they are “wicked
problems.”[7] There are many things that mark something that we call a
“wicked problem”; for example, they are multidimensional, have multiple
stakeholders, multiple causes, multiple symptoms, multiple solutions, and
are constantly evolving—and today, that basically means that they are
global.
Humankind first reached a global stage of evolution with the emergence
of its first worldcentric stage—namely, the orange rational-modern stage
(beginning, at its earliest, roughly around 1600). This stage brought the first
rush of the stunning possibilities and extraordinary benefits of a
worldcentric or global level of consciousness. The second major global
stage for humankind was the green postmodern stage (beginning around
1960). This stage saw and realized all the downsides of a modern global
reality, and thus it relativized everything (and consequently is often called
the “relativistic” stage), stumbling into a posttruth world with no way to get
out of it. It saw the problems of modernity but could do little substantially

to solve them. And both of these stages, remember, are 1st-tier stages. The
green postmodern stage, in fact, is the highest of the 1st-tier stages. The
general rule of development is the oft-repeated fact that you cannot solve a
problem from the same level that created it. And thus none of the 1st-tier
stages can solve the problems inherent in 1st tier itself. They can be solved
only by the “momentous leap” to Integral 2nd tier (which, as a stage, is the
third and to-date highest global stage for humankind).[8]
Let’s take, as a simple example, the major goals of postmodernism and
see how that stage itself creates problems that it can’t solve—but that an
Integral 2nd-tier stage can. Probably the central desires of postmodern
social justice can be summarized with the words diversity, equality, and
inclusiveness. What green wants, above all else, is to include all beings in a
perfect equality—embracing all diversity under an inclusive umbrella of
equality. In a certain sense, that’s a fine and noble ideal. Unfortunately, it
can’t be accomplished with only green tools. The way green approaches the
issue of achieving equality or equity is to identify the areas in which all
people should be treated the same (socially, culturally, sexually, racially,
educationally, politically). So it tracks all the exterior measures that seem to
indicate that people are being treated unfairly (such as an alleged wage gap
for women, or a rape culture on campus, or an epidemic of white privilege
evidenced in things like vastly unequal wealth, or transgender bathroom
rights, and so on). Unfortunately, because green is still 1st tier and thus is
not fully inclusive itself, it takes a totally flatland approach to these issues
—it tracks only exterior measures (like equal outcome). And by diversity it
explicitly means a diversity of exterior things that can be seen—especially
one’s skin color (racism) and one’s biological sex (sexism and the
patriarchy). It does not count Martin Luther King’s “content of character”
but only King’s “color of their skin.”
Green especially does not track—or is not even aware of—the profound
differences in the way stages of interior development themselves treat these
issues. The desire for social justice as social equality, for example, is a
desire that originates only at green. And, as we’ve seen, there are around six
major stages of development that an individual must go through in order to

even see and want those green values in the first place. Green is really
attacking ethnocentric attitudes and practices—that is, ones that originate at
amber and are truly racist, sexist, misogynist, homophobic, transphobic,
xenophobic, fundamentalist-religious, hyperpatriotic, colonialist, and so on.
These are generated by amber ethnocentric and brought together as
“identity politics,” which actually means “ethnocentric identity politics”—
all specific identities are ethnocentric. If you choose a specific identity—
being white, black, or female, and so on—you are selecting an ethnocentric
group to identify with, which is why all identity politics is generated at
amber ethnocentric. As we’ve seen, up to 60 percent of the U.S. population
are at ethnocentric stages (or lower). There is simply no way that
individuals at those earlier stages would ever agree to accept values that
stem from green (what they would do, however, is elect as president
somebody like Trump, who is essentially antigreen and anti-political
correctness).
Thus, the central element in any green postmodern social agenda—if it
wanted to be truly effective and actually succeed in advancing green values
—would have to be to propose and seriously support the ways and means
(educational, economic, technological, and cultural) that would help
individuals grow and develop in their interiors to the higher, worldcentric
stages (and green would especially aim for the postmodern worldcentric
stage). It would have to work, in other words, to help create a DDC—a
deliberately developmental culture. This is the only way that support for
green can actually be created and enhanced.
But green does exactly the opposite. It views all such ideas of things
like “higher” development as being themselves evidence of a horrid power
hierarchy and thus riddled with ethnocentrism—racist or sexist or whatnot.
In other words, it sees Growing Up only as a dominator hierarchy, not a
growth hierarchy—and so no growth is exactly what tends to occur. (Green
does this with all hierarchies, because it believes that all hierarchies are
power hierarchies—that is, it equates all growth hierarchies with dominator
hierarchies, even though the vast majority of hierarchies in the natural
world are growth hierarchies—such as quarks to atoms to molecules to cells

to organisms. As I previously noted, molecules don’t hate and oppress
atoms; they love atoms so much that they include and embrace them in their
own structure.) We saw that even to mention something like cultural
evolution in an Ivy League environment is to get quickly dismissed. So
green’s course of action effectively prevents exactly what it most wants. It
prevents the movement into higher, worldcentric green stages by denying
stages themselves, and all the ways and means that it proposes for reducing
racism, sexism, homophobia, and xenophobia explicitly ignore and deny the
most central causes of those prejudices themselves. Thus green spots the
problem, but its actions are inherently incapable of solving them.
The global-Integral stage of 2nd tier, on the other hand, is the first stage
that is actually and authentically inclusive—green desperately wants
diversity and inclusiveness, but Integral actually delivers it. It genuinely
includes the real diversity of the interiors (and their different worldviews),
as well as their stages of development, and considers carefully how
individual growth through those stages can be most effectively enhanced
and equally included. Thus, global-Integral includes the real diversity of
every stage of development, and it finds legitimate ways to equally embrace
them all in a worldcentric way that is genuinely inclusive and that fully
encompasses Growing Up and Showing Up (as well as Waking Up,
Opening Up, and Cleaning Up).
In short, Integral introduces a DDC and, as does Kegan, it does so in all
4 quadrants—a Growing Up that is authentically Showing Up. And you will
probably have noticed by now that the very idea of a conveyor belt is
exactly the introduction of a DDC. Of course, the wider point is that we, as
a society, should want all our multiple intelligences to be conveyor belts,
consciously introduced and fully encouraged and enhanced.
To finish the narrative that we started at the beginning of this chapter,
the Cuban Missile Crisis was solved (if solved is the right word) by a
happenstance occurrence in a meeting that Bobby Kennedy (John
Kennedy’s brother, whom he had made attorney general) had with Soviet
ambassador Anatoly Dobrynin. We will never know for sure what really
happened in that meeting, but the upshot was that, through various

negotiated actions (including the United States taking their missiles out of
Turkey), the Soviets agreed, in turn, to remove their missiles from Cuba and
never put them back. We managed to avert World War III (and its mutual
assured destruction)—for now.
But the other downsides of modernity were not averted, and they
proceeded forward at full steam. And, as we’ve been saying, since
modernity was global in its reach, both the good stuff and the bad stuff it
brought were global too. And thus the panic-inducing horror of global
suicide switched almost immediately from MAD to all the other downsides
of modernity, each of which began to erupt in one form of cancer or
another, and each of which carried (often as an unintended consequence) a
possible lethal worldwide catastrophe, and each of which kept leading-edge
postmodernists (and sane people everywhere) in need of SSRIs
(antidepressants). The smallest list of potentially suicidal catastrophes
(reaching global or near-global dimensions) was deeply unnerving:
a massive population explosion (referred to as a population “bomb,”
given its incredibly destructive possibilities)
an alarming global warming becoming more unthinkable by the day
(and if left unchecked, truly threatening human life everywhere,
becoming the latest cause of the paralyzing fear of global suicide first
introduced by the Cuban Missile Crisis)
a global financial meltdown threatening worldwide economic collapse
a planetwide terrorist movement that seems to strike almost anywhere
with impunity
nuclear arms threats (and the apparent willingness to use them) in
places from Iran to North Korea
an increasingly planetwide warfare conducted by vicious warlords
using orange modern technology yet driven by red religious tribal
drives
serious water shortages everywhere on the planet
global trafficking and slavery reaching over 60 million people a year
a staggering fifty thousand children starving to death each day

environmental instabilities everywhere on the planet
the creation of an AI superintelligence set to overtake human
intelligence with the “singularity,” which many experts think will be
the real end of humanity
cybercrime becoming the major form of worldwide warfare, with a
capacity to wipe out an entire country’s electrical systems
in one of the closest things to evil that exists on this earth—just five
people on the planet owning the same amount as owned by the poorest
50 percent of the world[9]
Because of all of these crises (I’m sure you can think of more), it had
indeed become a deeply cancer-ridden planet. And since they were getting
hit directly in the face by this, 75 percent of the youngest generation
developed clinical-level depression (Time magazine reports that 75 percent
of Gen Z have had to miss work because of clinical levels of anxiety or
depression; 50 percent of Millennials have).
It wasn’t the exponential speed of technological development that was
primarily causing these disastrous problems. It was the lack of a similar
degree of interior development that could keep up with technology and
offer some sort of balance, wisdom, and sane judgment to oversee the
technology itself. It’s been said that democracy is a bet that half of the
people are right at least half of the time. Developmentally, this means that
democracy will wisely work only if half of the population is at orange
worldcentric (or higher) for at least half of its decisions. (What do you think
you’ll get if a large majority—some 60 percent—are at less than orange
worldcentric?)
I repeat, strongly, that nobody at a worldcentric stage of morals (orange
or higher) would have anything to do with slavery—or with a Holocaust,
trafficking, utterly fraudulent worldwide banking practices, terrorist acts
pushing this or that ethnocentric and jihad-1st fundamentalism, warlords
and their standard-practice mass rapes and ethnic cleansing, toxic and
biosphere-destroying waste dumping (as long as we make money), or racist,
sexist, homophobic, or misogynistic acts. And yet typically, how do we

handle all of those problems? We totally and completely ignore the interior
stages where those disasters and prejudices primarily originate. This is like
treating AIDS by denying the existence of HIV.
From almost the very start of the global levels of consciousness
themselves—with both modernity and then postmodernity—humanity was
engaged in a colossal failure to Show Up, a deep lack of authenticity.
Otherwise how could something so evolutionarily advanced—the leap from
ethnocentric to worldcentric—have gone so bad, and virtually from the
start? Was it intentional, or was it another unintended consequence?
Whatever it was, it marked the darkest of all the dark shadows that the
modern and postmodern world would live under for three or four centuries
and counting. This deep failure to Show Up, this failure of integrity,
represented humanity’s abandoning and attempting to delete many
fundamental areas of reality itself, at just the time that humanity was
making a stunning series of profound discoveries in the remaining areas—
interiors were erased, while exteriors were making history-altering
advances. How could something so unbalanced have befallen the highly
developed leading edge of evolution?
And what on earth can we do about this massive failure to Show Up? In
order to know how to cure it, it would help to know what actually caused it.
OceanofPDF.com

14
The Nightmare of Modernity
The greatest sin of modernity was indeed that, alongside of its stunning
advances and progress in the exterior, Right-hand dimensions of reality, it
almost fully erased and deleted any reality for the interior, Left-hand
dimensions. The official background philosophy of the modern Western
world, to this day, is scientific materialism, which considers the scientific
exploration of the material dimensions of reality (“matter” in the second
sense—that is, any Right-hand dimension) to be the only sure route to
gaining any real and enduring knowledge. Philosopher Jürgen Habermas
agrees with this assessment. He considers this erasing of the interiors by
modern science—which he calls “the colonization of the lifeworld by
science”—to be one of the greatest downsides of the modern worldview.
The erasure of the Left-hand, interior realities was a cultural catastrophe of
the first order. So let us ask again, How on earth did something like that
happen?
THE GREAT SYSTEM OF NATURE
We’ve traced the problem of the complete denial of interior, Left-hand
realities to the beginning of global modernity. Humanity had just made a
revolutionary leap to orange worldcentric stages of being and awareness.
This was truly a leap in evolutionary terms, with a large number of new and
emergent virtues, but one that, almost from the start, began to go sour. It

was a higher level, yes, but one that was becoming deeply sick. A sick
version of a higher level. Was that good news or bad?
A bit of both, it turns out.
Contrary to popular but deeply misguided views of the Western
Enlightenment (which marked the beginning of modernity), the central and
guiding concept of the Enlightenment was not materialism (“matter” in the
first sense—that is, the reduction of all reality to insentient, nonliving
fundamental particles), nor was it mechanism or atomism. It is common to
claim that it was, and then all the problems of modernity that we outlined
are blamed on the rise of materialistic atomism and mechanism. But that is
a deeply confused explanation of what truly characterized the
Enlightenment, and thus leads us astray when we seek for the true cause of
all the problems stemming from the Enlightenment.
Rather, as Charles Taylor clearly demonstrates in Sources of the Self, the
central idea that explosively drove the Enlightenment was the notion of a
totally interwoven and unified order of Nature, what some French
philosophers called the Système de la Nature—the grand System of Nature.
According to this idea, Reality or Nature was a highly interwoven and
interconnected system. John Locke called it the “great interlocking order.”
Every reality in the universe was intimately interwoven with every other
one, in a magnificent, interlocking System of Nature. The mythic God was
dead; the great interlocking Web of Nature was born.
It’s important to realize how widespread and profoundly influential this
idea of a deeply systemic and unified Nature was, because inherent in this
idea of Unity is hidden the part that gave rise to the profound failure to
Show Up that began to plague humanity. I said that this problem was
inherent in some part of the System of Nature, but which part?
Because it all started so promisingly. The grand System of Nature was
itself said to be based on the Great Chain of Being (which is another
element commonly missing from the popular accounts of what constituted
the core of the Enlightenment). We’ve seen the Great Chain (or Great Nest)
appear in its Christian form as “matter, body, mind, soul, and spirit.” The
idea of this chain—with each of its links intimately interwoven with every

other link, so that there literally were “no missing links”—was widely
accepted decades before Darwin dutifully attempted to supply evidence for
it in the biological realm. The belief that there were “no missing links”
came directly from the idea of the Great Chain, not from any scientific
discoveries, although they would corroborate it.
Arthur Lovejoy’s The Great Chain of Being is the acknowledged
authoritative text on this idea, and as Lovejoy demonstrates, the Great
Chain itself was the most widely adopted worldview in history, literally.
Versions of it were accepted by the majority of the great thought leaders
throughout the world. As Lovejoy himself says, the Great Chain of Being
was the worldview that has been the “official philosophy of the larger part
of civilized mankind through most of its history.”[1]
It was certainly engaged in by the Enlightenment. Says Lovejoy, “Next
to the word ‘Nature,’ ‘the Great Chain of Being’ was the sacred phrase of
the eighteenth century.”[2] The Great Chain ensured that no matter how
separate or isolated any parts might look, they were actually interwoven
parts of a great Whole, and that Whole was the ultimate reality, so that the
aim of any true thinker was to demonstrate this Wholeness. Diderot’s
Encyclopédie (the rational bible of the Enlightenment) began its entry on
the advancement of knowledge: “Everything in nature is linked together,”
and “the art of the philosopher consists in adding new links to the separated
parts.” Small wonder that scientists and philosophers alike “were wont,
when they reached the height of their argument, to discourse with eloquence
on the perfection of the Universal System as a whole.”[3] As Pascal himself
put it, “Its parts all are so related and interlinked with one another that it is
impossible to know the parts without knowing the whole or the whole
without knowing all the parts.”[4]
So we have the Great Holarchy of Being—the Great Chain seen not as a
series of linear links but rather as concentric spheres, each larger sphere
enveloping all the nested smaller ones (which I often call the “Great Nest of
Being”). This idea ensured a systems-theory view of a totally interwoven
Nature, and this view of a globally universal system was indeed a terrific
start for modernity! An idea that had been one of the most prevalent in

civilized humanity up to that point—namely, the Great Chain of Being—
had slid seamlessly into modernity itself as it shifted up from amber to
orange.
At orange, there was also a higher and truly significant emergent that
came into being: the increased capacity for differentiation, a differentiation
that was an intrinsic part of the increased “differentiation and integration”
that evolution brings at each stage of its development, including the leap of
modernity. We see this differentiation clearly and directly in Max Weber’s
academic definition of modernity itself: modernity, he said, was marked by
the “differentiation of the value spheres” (a definition accepted by
Habermas). By “value spheres,” Weber meant the Big Three (the 4
quadrants)—modernity was marked by the differentiation of the spheres of
the Good (morals), the True (science), and the Beautiful (art), which
allowed wonderful progress to be made in all of them.
At the previous stage—amber, traditional, mythic-religious—the
quadrants were largely fused or undifferentiated: whatever the Church
proclaimed was taken to be the way it was, whether that had to do with the
Good, the True, or the Beautiful. These three spheres had not yet been
clearly differentiated and released from Church domination. Thus, the
churchmen saw no reason to actually look through Galileo’s telescope—the
Bible told them exactly what they would see.
But the orange modern stage introduced precisely that differentiation,
and thus it allowed artistic Beauty, moral Goodness, and philosophical and
scientific Truth to explore their own ways and develop their own means,
methods, and logics. This allowed art, morals, and science (the Big Three)
to start developing their own highest potentials, which they immediately
began to do. The positive result of all this—and the enormous progress
made in so many areas—has been called “the dignity of modernity,” and it
was exactly that, a true and profound dignity, which included, among many
other things, the freeing of slaves on a large scale for the first time in
history, not to mention the discovery of all the modern sciences—physics,
biology, astronomy, chemistry, geology, and so on.

This also meant that there was an exciting new chance to fully Show Up
for all these newly released dimensions of reality—a chance not only to see
them as being separated and differentiated but also to bring them together
and integrate them, as well as to fully inhabit them, embodying an even
greater integrity and authenticity. In other words, this new worldcentric,
orange stage of Growing Up meant a new and higher way to Show Up—to
fully and authentically inhabit all 4 quadrants, with trust, sincerity, and
integrity. The quadrants had always been there, but now they jumped into
self-conscious awareness. There were now new and higher elements—
orange elements—in all 4 major dimensions of humanity’s existence; and in
ways never seen before, humanity was invited to step up and Show Up. The
dignity of modernity, at this new and higher orange global level, was the
unprecedented platform on which humankind was now invited to act.
And for around a century or two, that is exactly what humanity did, with
results that now collectively define many of the basics of the world in
which we still live, usually called something like “the values of the
Enlightenment.” But somewhere along the line, the differentiation of the
value spheres degenerated into the dissociation of the value spheres. The
spheres of science (the Right-hand, exterior quadrants) were elevated to
sole reality, and the spheres of the Good and the Beautiful (morals and
aesthetics, Left-hand interiors in general) were relegated to the dust bin—
none of them were objectively true. They were merely subjective; they
weren’t important; they didn’t really matter; they weren’t really real. The
officially accepted view of reality drew closer and closer to a purely
objective scientific materialism. The disqualified universe was upon us, and
the disenchanted world settled around humanity like a suffocating pillow.
And what was worse was that the cultural leaders who participated in this
didn’t even know it was happening.
Whereas the differentiation of the value spheres lead to the dignity of
modernity, the dissociation of the value spheres was the disaster of
modernity—also frequently called “the crime of the Enlightenment.” It
would be this disaster that led to virtually all the modern global nightmares
(made obvious to postmodernity)—ecological, military, economic, spiritual,

transnational. The central ideas of the Enlightenment (the ideas of the
System of Nature and the Great Holarchy of Being) were not the sin of
modernity. Rather, the sin was the corruption and dissociation of these ideas
—which, on balance, meant that humanity was, in some of the most
disturbing ways possible, now refusing to Show Up. A scientific
materialism settled on the world, which didn’t embrace all 4 quadrants but
only the Right-hand, exterior quadrants—a realm of nothing but material
realities, exterior forms, sensory surfaces, and superficial outsides. The
interiors of consciousness, culture, the subjective, the good, and the
beautiful were blown away, gone with the modern wind.
THE ENORMOUSLY GREAT AND TOTALLY MIXED ADVANCE OF
MEASUREMENT
What exactly happened? Especially given the wonderful start, with
modernity’s idea of a completely interwoven Great Holarchy and the allinclusive System of Nature? As background to answer this question, we
start to see, over a century or two, the profound change in the meaning of
“matter” that we discussed earlier—namely, matter is no longer viewed as
the lowest and bottom rung of reality (which meant, for most of history, the
bottom rung in the Great Chain); rather it starts to be viewed as the exterior
dimension of every rung. That is, matter is the exterior correlate of forms
like the living body, mind, and soul, with each of their interior forms
possessing an increasing degree of consciousness, and where the levels of
increasing complexity of matter in the Right Hand correlates with the levels
of increasing degrees of consciousness in the Left Hand.
For example, in the ancient world, people did plenty of thinking, but
virtually nobody knew that this also involved hugely complex processes
that were occurring simultaneously in the physical brain. As microscopes
and other detection devices were invented (various “videotapes”) by the
modern world, this became increasingly obvious, and many modern
scientists began drifting into the notion that 1st-person consciousness was

nothing but a 3rd-person, material brain process. The crime of the
Enlightenment was slowly emerging.
Integral suggests that the second meaning of matter was being
disclosed. It could not have been discovered earlier because humanity had
no instruments, tools, or videotapes that could see these material structures.
Matter was not being viewed as just the lowest level on the Great Chain but
also as the exterior of all the levels of the Great Chain (where its increasing
complexity matched an increasing consciousness). But for most
investigators, the understanding of the relationship between matter and
consciousness wasn’t obvious—matter was matter, and that was that. (It
was obvious to many panpsychists that all matter has degrees of mind, as
we’ll see.)
For the most part, this relationship didn’t become a problem for around
a century or two. Scientists went about their work of studying these
exteriors (the brain, recall, is an exterior, objective, or 3rd-person view of
the interior mind of an individual), which was especially made possible by
many orange-level technological discoveries, from the microscope to the
telescope to photographic plates. The natural sciences, as they focused on
these exteriors, started to make utterly amazing discoveries—in physics,
chemistry, biology, evolution, geology, astronomy—all part of the great
dignity of modernity. Impressive advances were also being made in the
other value spheres of aesthetics and morals, but the progress in science was
outrageous. By the height of the Industrial Revolution, humankind was set
upon the course of building an orange worldcentric, global, objective
science and technology and a world of material artifacts in the Right Hand,
but it had less interest in, or even awareness of, the interior realities in the
Left Hand that were inhabiting this new space. Intensive focus on the
exteriors had made the reality of the interiors less and less obvious—and
apparently less needed: after all, look at the staggering progress of physics
and the sciences of the exteriors! And right here we start to see the classic
case of interior wisdom not keeping pace with our exterior technology, and
that will turn out to be the crime of the Enlightenment.

It’s important to realize that there were things in modern science itself
that invited this disaster, and this brings us to what is probably the single
greatest contributor to, and actual cause of, the crime of the Enlightenment.
Science, in its most basic definition, is certainly not limited to studying only
data revealed by the human senses and their extensions. It is definitely true
that science is experiential in nature—it wants experiential evidence for its
claims—but as William James knew, there are sensory experiences, mental
experiences, and spiritual experiences—and all of them can be legitimately
investigated with a general, scientific-experiential approach (for more on
this, see my book Eye to Eye).
If modern science had stayed with experiential data (including the
experience of the sensory, mental, and spiritual domains) there would have
been few problems. But modern science wasn’t just experiential. Of all the
experiences that humans can have, modern science valued the most those
that could be measured.
Modern science didn’t seek just empirical reality, or just experiential
reality, or even just evidence. It wanted empirical evidence that could be
measured. As Whitehead points out in Science and the Modern World, the
true core of the modern scientific method was invented simultaneously and
independently in 1605 by Galileo Galilei and Johannes Kepler. They both
introduced the core idea that the laws of Nature can best be understood by
measuring. So Kepler measured heavenly movement and discovered the
laws of planetary motion. Galileo measured earthly movement and
discovered the laws of terrestrial motion. The megagenius Isaac Newton put
both of these measurements together in his universal laws of gravity and
motion. Those laws are popularly imagined as dawning on Newton when an
apple fell on his head—an image that reflects the reality that Newton
discovered that the force that made the apple fall to the earth is the same
force that makes the earth circle the sun: namely, gravity. This combined
earthly laws and heavenly laws into a grand unity, and once again the great
System of Nature was front and center.
But notice that, in this case, that meant the collective exterior realities
were seen as a great system—it meant the Lower Right quadrant, insofar as

it could be measured. There is no mention of interiors anywhere in the laws
of Kepler, Galileo, or Newton—nor, of course, should there be. Centering
on exteriors led exactly to these types of discoveries. In looking only at the
exteriors, they delivered only the exteriors. The background context for
understanding given by the Great Chain—an idea the Enlightenment fully
embraced at the start—was that every measurable exterior material reality
was nonetheless intimately bound up with all the interior realities (the
higher levels, including body, mind, and soul, were all interwoven in the
Great Nest). So these original and brilliant scientific pioneers, as they began
to measure the world, didn’t think that they were leaving out anything
important as they simply and solely explored the Right-hand, material
realm.
The activity of measuring, adopted on a wide scale, was indeed quite
new, and this activity is what marked the modern sciences as indeed being
modern, or truly new and novel. Previously, science researchers brought
only a heightened observation of nature or an aggressively empirical
approach to studying nature. And many earlier scholars had indeed followed
that approach to science and had examined nature in an empirically
aggressive fashion. Aristotle, for one, had already looked at nature in as
empirical and as far-reaching a manner as can be imagined.
But none of them had measured anything. They had been employing
something of a scientific method, which intensely observed and empirically
classified nature, but they had not been using a modern scientific method,
which added measurement of nature. Thus none of them came up with
anything near Galileo’s, Kepler’s, or Newton’s laws—none of them came
up with modern science. Part of Whitehead’s genius was to point out that,
yes, empirical science had been around in various forms at least since the
Greeks; but modern empirical science emerged only in 1605 with Galileo
and Kepler and the discovery of the vast importance of measurement.
Of course, it is much easier to measure exterior matter than it is to
measure interior mind. In fact, it is notoriously difficult to measure mind or
mental realities, and it’s considerably easier to measure matter or exterior
physical realities. Thus, if you are following the rule that the laws of nature

are best understood by measurement, then you will be open to reducing
Nature to just the material, Right-hand quadrants. And since you still
believe in the great System of Nature, you will reduce Nature to the Lower
Right quadrant, the systemic material quadrant. Thus, none of the equations
of the newly discovered sciences (chemistry, biology, physics, astronomy,
geology, and so on) had equations that applied to any interior reality at all—
they applied only to exterior matter (in the second sense), and since they
referred to the great System of Nature, they were referring to the collective
or systemic forms of matter, the Lower Right quadrant.
Integral suggests that the “great interlocking order” was quickly
becoming nothing but the Lower Right quadrant. This was still a great
System of Nature, still fully interwoven and completely interlinked, but
only as it could be seen and measured with the human senses or their
extensions. The great interlocking order was seen only through a 3rd-person
plural perspective, which saw only the Lower Right or collective material
dimensions of the System of Nature. The dissociation of the value spheres,
the “disaster of modernity,” the disenchanted world—this was fast
becoming the dominant reality.
This new approach was most impactfully applied by James Watt who, in
the 1760s, had an idea that arguably would affect more human beings than
any other single idea in history: he conceived the principles of a truly
workable steam engine. And that changed everything, absolutely
everything. Along with a few other important if secondary inventions, this
marked the beginning of the Machine Age, the start of the Industrial
Revolution, the beginning of modernity itself.
The first modern philosopher—by almost all accounts, René Descartes
—would characterize this new reality by maintaining that the mind (the
interiors or Left-hand dimension) possessed intention and matter (the
exteriors or Right-hand dimension) possessed extension. Extension meant
extended in space, time, and quantitative aspects—and this tended to mean
categorically, as we just noted, that only the exteriors, the objective
dimensions of matter, possessed extension and thus could be measured.
(Interior intention can be measured, but it is much harder and trickier, and

combined with the fact that interiors seem to be “private,” almost all the
interiors were originally dismissed when it came to measurement.) And
thus, when science maintained that measurement was the key to reality, it
almost automatically meant that only the objective, 3rd-person exteriors
were to be taken to be real. As a result, the new scientific method very
quickly led people to embrace scientific materialism. And this meant a
deeply earnest and official promise from the modern West that, from this
time forward, it sincerely would not Show Up.
So it came about that Nature was conceived as a great interwoven and
interlocking system but composed of nothing but physical elements,
sensory surfaces, and material realities. In other words, all quadrants were
reduced to the Lower Right quadrant. I call this “subtle
reductionism”—“subtle” because it’s easy to miss the reductionism because
it still covers all the interwoven Web insofar as it contains the material
correlates of all the quadrants, although it leaves out the interior quadrants
themselves. It still believes in the great System of Nature but only in Nature
that can be seen (that is, videotaped) with the senses or their extensions—
that is, 3rd-person evidence. (Gross reductionism goes even further and
reduces those wholes to their atomistic parts—reduces the Lower Right to
the Upper Right. This started to occur during the Enlightenment and is often
confused with the main “crime” of the Enlightenment, although it was
really just a byproduct of it.)
But this subtle reductionism wasn’t that obvious at the start. After all, it
was originally believed that the measured material realities were still fully
interwoven with all the levels in the Great Nest, so everything was being
included; they’re all fully interlinked and interconnected, so there’s nothing
to worry about.
Although matter was indeed the exterior dimension of every interior
dimension in reality, by definition those exteriors are not the interiors
themselves, nor can they replace or substitute for them in any way. Among
other things, the interior realities include values, such as better and worse,
right and wrong, more valuable and less valuable, good and evil. You can’t
find any of those Left-hand value distinctions anywhere in the exterior,

Right-hand realms. A tree is bigger than a frog, but it is not better. A
mountain weighs more than a forest, but it is not more moral. A male
peacock’s tail is more colorful than a female’s, but it is not more valuable.
Interior worldcentric identity, on the other hand, is better than a sexist or
racist ethnocentric identity. In other words, values are found in the Lefthand, interior realms, and as those realms continuously lost more and more
ground, the universe increasingly became truly valueless—it became a
“disenchanted” and “disqualified” world.
Gone are interiors, gone are virtues, values, purpose, the good, and the
beautiful—the interwoven world of holistic frisky dirt is all that remained.
It was a world of dynamically interwoven “its,” but with no real “I’s” or
“you’s” or “we’s” anywhere. Since none of those interior realms had any
objective truth, they were only subjective and could be totally rejected. This
can be called a “naïve ecology”—it is definitely interlocking and
interwoven, but it is composed only of surfaces, exteriors, and objective
dimensions. It’s what you see if, right now, you simply look at the total
picture in front of you and imagine it all as being a single, interwoven
system. It sees an ecological wholeness or system but only in its exterior or
superficial components. That is exactly the Lower Right quadrant—it
contains trees, grass, frogs, dogs, cats, and humans (plus their artifacts) but
only in their objective, exterior, material surfaces, all of which can be seen
or videotaped. And there is literally nothing else, not a single interiority
anywhere in sight.
But that is the view—supported by an empirical science with
measurement at its core—that was taken as supreme by the Enlightenment
and then moved forward into modernity. Strenuous rebellions against this
restricted and collapsed view were already starting. The Romantic and then
the Idealistic movements railed against this reductionistic view. As one of
its critics exclaimed, “You would have to be insensitive or dead to accept
this much reductionism.” But these objections couldn’t overcome the
official endorsement of scientific materialism with its instrumental
rationality. The truly holistic System of Nature, with its fully interwoven
interiors and exteriors, was collapsed into a materialistic holism. That is, the

total and perfectly interwoven System of Nature was indeed recognized but
only in the Lower Right quadrant, or its exterior collective dimensions—a
completely flatland holism. This is indeed a holism, but a holism that lacks
authenticity, a holism that refuses to Show Up.
This flatland form of the great interlocking order is the real sin that
stemmed from the Enlightenment; and to this day, this scientific
materialism is the official background philosophy of the Western world. If
you want to know what’s “really real,” you no longer ask religion, you ask
science.
The worst part of this crime of the Enlightenment wasn’t just the
reduction of all reality to the Lower Right quadrant; it was the official
erasure and disappearance of the Left-hand quadrants. Consciousness,
culture, mind, and subjects in general were cut out entirely, because they
were not able to be scientifically measured. And we have seen that almost
all of modernity’s and postmodernity’s problems stem from cutting off and
failing to follow these now deleted interior realities. And this derives not
from the Enlightenment itself but from the crime of the Enlightenment, the
reduction of the great System of Nature, the interlocking order of all 4
quadrants of existence, to the Lower Right quadrant.
The final aspect of this problem was that even though science itself
reached global, worldcentric levels of development, our interiors did not
reach these same levels of global development, because they weren’t even
being tracked anymore or even considered to be real. Because of this
enormous imbalance between our exterior science, technology, and artifacts
and our interior levels of consciousness, culture, and wisdom, our problems
became globally suicidal—and there is where our modern world still stands
today.
The disaster of modernity had become modernity itself.
ATOMISM VERSUS SYSTEMS THEORY: A NEW PARADIGM?
As we just noted, ever since the emergence of modern science, there has
been, within science itself, a heated battle between subtle reductionism,

which claims that reality is ultimately composed of systemic wholes made
of dynamically interacting material elements and processes, and gross
reductionism, which claims that reality is composed of nothing but those
isolated material elements themselves—a battle, in short, between various
forms of dynamic systems theory and various forms of materialistic
atomism. All of this infighting has occurred solely within the Right-hand,
exterior quadrants, of course—none of the interiors are included in this
battle (systems theory doesn’t even pretend to deal with the phenomenal
realities of beauty, morals, love, goodness, value, or 1st-person
consciousness as 1st person). It is a battle strictly between proponents of the
systems (or collective holons) of the Lower Right and proponents of the
atoms (or individual holons) of the Upper Right.
This certainly happened during the Enlightenment, where the great
interlocking order began as a reflection of the Great Nest of Being and
ended up as nothing but the interwoven material systems of the Lower
Right. And, of course, there were those who carried this reductionism even
further and went straight to gross reductionism, giving strongly
reductionistic accounts of the universe as merely “atomistic,” or
“physicalistic,” or “mechanistic.” The terms associated with these gross
reductionisms are often taken to represent the core of the Enlightenment
itself, but we’ve seen that these types of gross reductionism all depended
upon a distortion and corruption of the truly core ideas of the
Enlightenment, which were the Great Holarchy of Being and the totally
interwoven System of Nature. And what’s most telling is that the only
thinkers who were vehemently denying gross reductionism were the subtle
reductionists.
Thus systems theory (which I fully embrace—but only for the Lower
Right!) will give extensive arguments that it includes all the reality that can
and should be included and that it sees everything as being fully interwoven
with absolutely everything else. But, as I began to say, these accounts don’t
even mention aesthetics, ethics, morals, virtues, vision, purpose. There is
nothing whatsoever about stages of Growing Up or states of Waking Up or
ways to Clean Up or the importance of Opening Up and Showing Up—

nothing from the interiors or Left Hand at all. This is simply the great
interlocking order, the Web of Life, reduced to its collapsed form of
exteriors alone—without even any awareness of what the real problem is.
Proponents of a systems approach can get very fired up with how
inclusive they are. They hold up atomism as the great enemy and maintain
that they, in contrast, are arguing for a reality that is completely whole, that
is mutually interwoven, that consists of intricately interlinked and
interactive dynamic processes, where everything is connected to everything
else and the universe is a great harmony of systems within systems. They
invite you to join them in this great crusade for unity and wholeness. And
the thing is, they are entirely right about their view—in it, reality is indeed
an enormously interwoven system. The problem is that their interwoven and
“holistic” system actually leaves out fully half of the universe. It is a
thoroughly 3rd-person view of nothing but the Right-hand exteriors, which
completely deletes and erases the Left-hand, interior dimensions in their
own 1st- and 2nd-person terms. Thus, for example, 1st-person
consciousness and awareness of the Upper Left are reduced to 3rd-person
bits and bytes of information running through neural networks and brain
systems in the Upper Right. Likewise, system theorists, armed with a
plethora of “New Paradigms” (which they maintain will “transform the
world”), claim that the leading edge of the most advanced natural sciences
now points to a fully and completely unified world (very like, they claim,
the one that mystics throughout history have advocated).
For example, “quantum entanglement” is taken as proof that
“everything is interwoven.” Quantum entanglement refers to the fact that
when two subatomic particles whose characteristics determine each other
are split apart, no matter how far apart they travel, whenever you determine
the characteristics of one particle, those of the other are instantly and
simultaneously determined. Since even information traveling at the speed of
light could not do this, the interwovenness (“entanglement”) of the two
particles has to be built into their very existence. That’s fine. But the
quantum laws applying to those two subatomic particles tell us almost
nothing about any higher or more complex dimension of reality, not even

within science itself. Quantum physics doesn’t explain or predict anything
much about biology, psychology, ecology, or sociology. It tell us nothing
about the functioning of DNA and how genetics works, nothing about most
forms of biochemistry and the complex interaction of molecules, nothing
about ecology or about how a possible biospheric collapse is occurring,
nothing about shadow material and how to clean it up, absolutely nothing
about Growing Up or Showing Up or anything like that. Even if the laws
governing these two subatomic particles applied equally to all other
physical particles (and they come nowhere close to doing so), they certainly
don’t apply to any higher levels of reality. To claim they do so is itself the
ultimate in reductionism.
And we have already seen this truly embarrassing fact: if quantum
mechanics actually revealed the very same interwoven reality that a Zen
student sees with a satori (ultimate Unity consciousness), then every
professional physicist would have had a major satori, whereas virtually
none of them have. Study physics all you want, you’ll never have a Waking
Up experience as a result.
The New Paradigm theorists are giving—again, with a heart of gold and
the very best of intentions—yet more arguments in favor of the (collapsed)
great interlocking order, the (broken) System of Nature. Ironically, virtually
all of them loudly claim that they are overcoming the nasty Enlightenment
paradigm of atomism and mechanism, whereas they are really presenting
yet another view of the Enlightenment’s collapsed and subtle reductionism.
The advanced natural sciences—the “new sciences” that the New Paradigm
embraces—do indeed often present the holistic nature of some area of
nature, but again, only in its exterior, objective, material form, a dynamic
“its.” They are nothing more than variations on traditional systems sciences
—and so of course, as orthodox sciences, they give us the latest on new
forms of scientific materialism. But a traditional science that covers a web
of reality is still a traditional science—that is, a scientific materialism. And
like all of the other new scientific materialist theories, the New Paradigms
argue strenuously that the real enemy is atomism. It is atomism, with its
focus on hyperindividualism, that drives the world toward greedy

capitalism, catastrophic environmental destruction, and the continued power
of dominator hierarchies. Only a unified systems view—which these New
Paradigms are showing us—can reverse this horrid situation and usher in a
new life on this planet.
And thus the reductionistic form of the great interlocking order—“the
crime of the Enlightenment”—lives on. It embodies the same disaster of
modernity, and it continues to crush and mutilate the interiors while
claiming to embrace the whole world. This is textbook subtle reductionism.
These New Paradigms claim that the solutions to humanity’s globally
suicidal crises all depend upon embracing this great interlocking order,
while in fact, as we’ve seen, that claim involves reducing all 4 quadrants to
their 3rd-person forms—which are, yes, plural, collective, and interlocking
—and this is exactly the problem. These approaches are actually symptoms
of the illness for which they claim to be the cure.
So this is what it all comes down to. In any approach to life, first and
foremost, simply Show Up. Show Up for life. Do not inherit the downsides
of modernity that have resulted in every major modern suicidal catastrophe.
Especially as you begin to look for more unity, more harmony, and more
Wholeness in your life, don’t make the mistake of looking only at the
surfaces, only at the varnish and veneer. Especially don’t fall into a
collapsed and reductionistic version of the great interlocking order, the
grand System of Nature, and let the fact that all its surfaces and exteriors
are fully interwoven, interlinked, and entangled distract you from the
devastating fact that the collapsed great interlocking order is an order of
dynamically interwoven “its.” There are no “I’s” or “you’s” or “us’s” or
“we’s” anywhere in it. It’s a colossal failure to Show Up—and the worst
problem of all is that it doesn’t know, or even suspect, that it’s not Showing
Up. So be careful when you apply this great “Web of Its” to your own life
(unless you want to become nothing but an “it” yourself).

THE WORLD OF TOMORROW: A GLOBAL TRANSHUMANISM?
Although you can engage in all of these practices of Big Wholeness right
now—Showing Up, Growing Up, Waking Up, Opening Up, and Cleaning
Up—by the time such an Integral approach becomes a full and significant
part of a future society, that society will be one in which robotics has almost
fully replaced any and all sorts of human work. We will exist in a leisure
culture that allows us a life span of literally several hundred years to do
pretty much whatever we want. And a large measure of what we will want
will be ways to Wake Up, Grow Up, Clean Up, and Show Up—if for no
other reason than that they will be almost all that’s left for us to do with our
time. No robot will be able to do them for us, and thus we will be doing
them for ourselves—happily. And so we will eagerly engage in the journey
and adventure of finding ourselves growing, expanding, and evolving from
an identity with just this single, isolated organism to an identity with every
single thing and event in the entire Kosmos—a Kosmic consciousness that
is our own deepest and truest Nature, our own Original Face.
As for technological predictions, it’s the widespread faith of Silicon
Valley that we are moving into a future of “transhumanism”—where human
beings will be able to download their consciousness into computers and
thus will be able to live indefinitely, live basically forever. Just be careful—
you’ll live forever as long as nobody drops your computer and shatters it.
No materially constructed computer is guaranteed to be completely
indestructible and therefore to persist forever—and thus nothing that
depends upon it will be either. How embarrassing would that be—to have
your everlasting life ended today by somebody dropping the computer that
you were staring out of? A silly accident?
And consider this: what level of consciousness do you want to be at
when your consciousness is downloaded—and remember, this is basically
for ever and ever? Do you want to be able to Wake Up, or just spend the
rest of everlasting time in an illusory, egoic state of awareness? It looks like
transhumanism equals everlasting ignorance (nonenlightenment). Do you
really want that—to continue to be stupid forever?

And what about evolution itself? Apparently your awareness will not
grow, develop, or evolve one inch beyond the point when it is downloaded,
so that you get to spend the rest of everlasting time in a relatively but
pervasively idiotic condition with no chance to evolve. How would you like
to spend the rest of your life on earth in, for example, a mythic ethnocentric
state of awareness? Really, how truly disastrous is that?
You can instead, starting right now, choose a future that refuses flatland.
You can choose to Show Up right now, step into the fullness of your own
being, and radiate its Source and Suchness to one and all. You don’t have to
accept the disaster of modernity. You don’t have to embrace the New
Paradigms that sing the glory of the great interlocking order but leave your
interiors gutted and splayed out and left as roadkill on the path to your own
supposed future glory. You don’t have to delete your Left-hand interiors and
collapse your realities into nothing but the Right-hand exteriors of
superficial surfaces and shiny varnish and veneer, devastating any hope of
Growing Up, Waking Up, and Cleaning Up and left with nothing but a
surface shell of being and a hollow core of consciousness, which is all that
will remain of your authentic awareness after it suffers a complete and total
“colonization of the lifeworld by science.”
What you’ve seen in this book so far is what is hopefully some fairly
convincing evidence that there really is a Growing Up (and you can engage
in it effectively right now); there truly exists a Waking Up (which you can
directly taste, also right now); and something called Cleaning Up is a
definite possibility (bringing with it a certain wholeness and peace of
mind), as well as a genuine Opening Up (to multiple potentials lying
directly inside you)—and all of those can be embraced and effectively
embodied this moment in an authentic Showing Up, allowing your life to
radiate in all directions, even to infinity and back.
I’ve been focusing, in the last few chapters, on a genuine Showing Up,
looking at what it means and how we as a culture have, on the whole, lost
track of it and what we can do to regain it. I want to shift now to a serious
look at Waking Up—both what it is and how you can gain a genuine access
to it. I introduced the topic of Waking Up early in the book, but now I

would like to go into more detail, because it is so important as part of a
genuinely true and complete realization of a Big Wholeness. And I also
want to give some pointing-out instructions, as well as introduce some
practices to help you authentically Wake Up, including the practices of an
Integral sexual Tantra, where you’ll learn how to be on a path to a real
Awakening every time you have sex.
So I invite you to accompany me on a journey to your own Real Self,
your own
True Nature, the core Condition and Reality of your own being. It’s a
path without date or duration, on a road without aim or goal, toward a
realization without beginning or end. I don’t think you’ll be disappointed.
OceanofPDF.com

15
Waking Up
OVERVIEW
First, a word about what we will be doing as an approach to the
fundamental process of Waking Up. I think you’re going to find this
interesting, because we’ll be focusing on the two highest states of
consciousness: turiya (the Witness or pure Awareness) and turiyatita
(ultimate nondual Unity consciousness, One Taste, or simply Suchness). We
will also be exploring the immediate feeling tones that accompany both of
those states—in other words, the feelings of Enlightenment, or how the
Enlightened state actually feels.
With the Witness, for example, you have shifted from identifying with a
small, finite, limited, seen self (usually known as the ego), to the vast,
infinite, ever-present Witness, the pure Seer (not anything seen), pure
Awareness itself (not any content of Awareness)—and this is marked by a
sense of radical Freedom or profound Release and Liberation. The Witness
can truthfully report, “I see that mountain, but I am not that mountain. I
have sensations, but I am not those sensations. I have feelings, but I am not
those feelings. I have thoughts, but I am not those thoughts.” The Witness is
not anything that can be observed or seen; it’s the pure Seer. It’s not any
content of Awareness; it’s pure Awareness itself. So it’s radically free of the
binding nature of any content at all—it’s neti, neti, “not this, not that.”
As you go in search of this True Self (“I’m not this; I’m not that”), you
won’t find it by seeing something—if you see anything, that’s just more

objects, more content, more stuff. Whatever you see is fine; you’re just not
identified with it. Rather, you will start to sense a vast Freedom from all of
this, a vast Openness and Spaciousness, not as an object but as an
atmosphere. As the Witness of all objects, it is profoundly Free of all
objects—this is known as the Great Liberation. The Great Liberation is
inherently free of all dukkha, or all suffering, and is altogether free of the
constant presence of anxiety, depression, and angst. It’s no longer the victim
of Life; it’s the Witness of Life, itself radically Free. This sense of vast
Freedom is something you can directly discover as you recognize the true
Witness in yourself, in this very moment.
Now, the feeling of this infinite Freedom is many things; it’s a feeling of
Liberation, a feeling of ecstatic Release, a feeling of profound joy, and a
feeling of deep happiness, which many of the Traditions summarize with
one word: bliss. So the Witness exists as a radical Freedom, the feeling of
which is bliss. In Sanskrit, bliss is known as ananda; and ananda is a core
metaphor of Spirit itself. And here almost all the Traditions are very careful
to distinguish between “ultimate Spirit,” about which, à la Nagarjuna,
literally nothing can be accurately said, and a qualified Spirit, about which
something can be said, at least metaphorically. Ultimate Spirit is sometimes
referred to as “nirguna Brahman,” where nirguna means “totally
unqualifiable.” In other words, it’s a real Emptiness (empty of all thoughts
and all things). In contrast, “saguna Brahman” means “Spirit with
metaphoric qualities,” or qualities that are true only in a metaphoric sense.
Everything I am saying about Spirit right now, needless to say, applies to
saguna Brahman. You can directly understand nirguna Brahman only if you
yourself have a direct Waking Up, which I will discuss later in this section.
Saguna Brahman is defined in the Indian tradition as satchitananda: sat
means “being”; chit means “consciousness”; and ananda means “bliss.”
Being-Consciousness-Bliss: the metaphoric core of Waking Up. And just as
the Witness is an ever-present reality (it is fully present right now, whether
we realize it or not), so its Freedom and Bliss are likewise ever-present,
fully existing in this moment, right now—whether we recognize them or
not. So as we do exercises that will help us recognize our True Self and its

sense of radical Freedom, we especially will be looking for this ever-present
Bliss—this Bliss, after all, alerts us to our Real Self’s ever-present
Presence, which is something we can directly experience, right here, right
now.
So, put simply: the radical Freedom of the Witness is Felt as Bliss—and
that’s one of the major things we’ll be looking at.
As we continue exploring these highest states, we’ll move from turiya
to turiyatita, which is said to be the very highest and ultimate state of
consciousness. This 5th state (so-named because it follows the 4th state of
turiya) is not so much a Self that does the Witnessing but a simple Suchness
or Thusness of pure undivided Presence (or One Taste). Here, I no longer
Witness the mountain, I am the mountain. I no longer see the stars, I am the
stars. I no longer watch the clouds, I am the clouds. I no longer feel the
earth, I am the earth. The sense of Self that stands back and witnesses the
world dissolves into a pure unity with the entire world—and I am That.
There is still a sense of Freedom in this, but even more so there is a sense of
Fullness. There is literally nothing that is outside or separate from me.
There is only me, but it’s not a “me,” it’s just this—the Suchness, Thusness,
Isness of this and every moment, no inside and no outside, no past and no
future, just this.
Freedom is always a sense of freedom from something (even the
freedom to do something depends upon a freedom from any restraints). For
the Witness, its radical Freedom is a Freedom from the entire manifest
realm, a Freedom from all of samsara, a joyous Freedom from all of its
suffering, anxiety, depression, torment, and terror. It is Free from that
because it is none of that—it’s neti, neti, “not this, not that.” But the
Fullness of One Taste is not separate from all manifestation—rather, it’s
radically one with all of it (hence, One Taste—or pure Nonduality). This is
a type of freedom, but it’s a freedom that comes not from excluding All but
from being radically One with All. Because One Taste is one with
everything that is arising—an ultimate Unity consciousness—there is
nothing outside of it that could limit it, threaten it, hurt it, or torment it. The
feeling that One Taste has comes from this superabundant Fullness.

So, the feeling of this radical Fullness is not so much Bliss as it is Love.
(Although, of course, both of them are present in the Ultimate state.) Love
itself is the sense of being one with something, and the radiant warmth of
that oneness is what we call “love.” In this case, it is an infinite and ultimate
Love because it is a oneness with the entire universe, a One Taste with
everything that is arising. I am literally one with—or nondual with—the
entire Kosmos, a Kosmic Consciousness, fully embraced in the Suchness or
Thusness of this present Now-moment. And I do not experience this Nowmoment; I am the totality of this Now-moment, in all its radiant Love.
The recognition of these two highest states—the pure Witness and One
Taste—is simultaneously the recognition of a radical Freedom and a
profound Fullness, and these are directly felt as a genuine Bliss and an allembracing Love. This Loving Bliss (or Blissful Love) is the actual texture
of each and every Now-moment that we will ever have, reflecting the
ultimate Freedom and radical Fullness that is our deepest and ever-present
Nature. In this part of the book, we will be looking for the pure Witness and
nondual One Taste with their radical Freedom and pure Fullness, felt as an
ongoing Bliss and all-encompassing Love.
Starting in this and continuing into the next chapter (chapter 16), I will
be going over the highest two states of consciousness (turiya and turiyatita)
and giving some pointing-out instructions to help you realize the everpresent Presence of both of them. Then, in chapter 17, I will be working
with the feelings of Enlightenment (Bliss and Love) and giving several
pointing-out instructions to help you recognize their ever-present Presence
in you. As the final part of our adventure in Waking Up, we will be
exploring a sexual Integral Tantra. Tantra itself is many things, but most
centrally it is a way to use the blissful and loving feelings that naturally
arise in sex as a pathway to the Bliss and Love of ultimate Spirit itself.
We’ve already seen that Bliss and Love are the two most fundamental
feeling tones of authentic Spiritual Awareness. Tantra is a direct way to use
the temporal, finite feelings of sexual bliss and love to remember, evoke,
and enhance the ever-present infinite Bliss and Love of our own True
Nature. In short, sexuality can be used as a means of Waking Up—so that

every time you have sex, you will be directly plunged into divine Spirit
itself, and put face-to-face with your own deepest and truest Self and
Suchness. In chapters 18 and 19 on Integral sexual Tantra, I will be going
into specific exercises and practices to do exactly that—and this will very
likely change the way that you see sexuality forever.
THE HISTORICAL FORGETTING OF WAKING UP
Waking Up is surely one of the most profound areas of Wholeness that the
modern world has forgotten, ignored, or outright denied. It was largely
denounced by modernity. Why did it do so? We have seen that there is an
important distinction between spiritual intelligence, which is an indirect
“knowledge by description” that occurs in Growing Up, and spiritual
experience, which is a direct “knowledge by acquaintance” that occurs in
Waking Up. Particularly in the West, as humanity was evolving and
Growing Up from amber traditional-mythic to a more orange modern
rationality (“The Age of Reason”), the leading-edge elite were increasingly
impressed, for many good reasons, with the type of knowledge that a
rational science could generate, and they were also increasingly more likely
to speak out against the disastrous undersides of a merely mythic religion.
Indeed, modern Europe (from 1700 onward) had just undergone several
decades of truly barbaric religious warfare—“My God is better than your
God”—whereas modernity itself believed that “God is dead.” (And the
amber mythic God was indeed dying as any sort of leading-edge view.)
As the scientific worldview of orange rationality continued to gain
momentum, the religious worldview of a largely mythic dogmatism steadily
lost ground. A century or two into this, most leading-edge thinkers had put
their reliance in rational science, not mythic religion. Today, the official
cultural philosophy of the modern West is still scientific materialism (we
traced the historical rise of this situation in the previous chapter).
However, when modernity tossed out religion altogether, it totally
confused spiritual intelligence (which is a line in Growing Up) with
spiritual experience (which is a direct state of Waking Up). Now in the

various religious systems themselves, this was always a dicey distinction.
The founders of most of the major religions around the world had
themselves experienced some degree of a profound Waking Up, but you
could not say the same for their followers. The essential aim of the
particular religion itself was generally recognized to be a state of
consciousness similar to its founder’s, and many of its religious practices
were aimed at those higher states. While some people attained those higher
states of Waking Up, most of them did not. But all of them, without
exception, had attained some stage of Growing Up (mostly mythic), and
thus had some level of spiritual intelligence. During the Middle Ages, the
most common level of spiritual intelligence was indeed amber mythic, and
thus this was the typical dogma ensconced in the various creeds that defined
Christianity at that time (for example, the Nicene Creed and the Apostle’s
Creed, which have strongly amber mythic-literal and ethnocentric cores).
Christianity also embraced, in much smaller numbers, those who practiced
meditation or contemplation or something like the Cloud of Unknowing,
which aimed for a genuine Waking Up (usually of turiya, which is indeed a
neti, neti, a form of apophatic mysticism). These were often monks, and of
those monks, a small number would actually have an authentic Waking Up.
For the rest of the population, their spiritual intelligence was mythic-literal.
Very few people at the time understood the distinction between spiritual
intelligence and spiritual experience. For one thing, the stages of Growing
Up had not yet been discovered. For another, the percentage of the
population who had had a genuine Waking Up was quite small. The result
was that, in general, there was no consistent line drawn between spirituality
as it appeared in Growing Up and as it appeared in Waking Up—they both
looked “religious” to the untutored eye. The vast majority of people who
said they believed in a Christian God were expressing some sort of mythicliteral belief. Thus when science threw out religion, it threw out all of it. It
tossed out the religion of amber mythic, but it also tossed out any
spirituality of Waking Up. God was dead, period. That is why the Western
world has forgotten about Waking Up.
So I want to resurrect Waking Up and recommend it to you very highly.

THE WITNESS VERSUS ONE TASTE
People often have difficulty distinguishing between, or least remembering,
the difference between Witnessing and One Taste. The difference between
Witnessing Awareness and One Taste Awareness is simply a difference in
your relationship with the totality of the Painting of All That Is. In the
former (the Witness), you stand Free of the totality and simply witness it as
object, with the Witness itself (as Absolute Subjectivity, pure Seer, or True
Self) remaining completely and radically Free of all objects whatsoever
(neti, neti). In the latter (One Taste), you go one step further and dissolve
the Witness into the Total Painting itself, and thus drop any sensation of
being separate from anything that is arising—a pure One Taste awareness.
There is now not so much a sense of Freedom from the All but a sense of
Fullness with or as the All—not Freedom from, but Oneness with.
For both, the Total Painting is the total of all things and events that are
arising in your awareness right now—with no avoidance, no denial, no
resistance (whether you Witness all of it or become One with all of it). So
the fundamental first step in both cases is to actually rest in the most total of
the most total of the most total Totality that you can possibly be aware of.
Simply experience everything you’re experiencing; avoid nothing. Start by
resting in a fully all-inclusive Witnessing Awareness of the totality of the
Painting of All That Is. And this totality is every single thing and event,
sensation and impulse, feeling and desire, that is arising in your experience
right now—the Painting of All That Is (the entire world for you).
A helpful key is to notice that, in every case, our normal or typical
awareness is driven by a fundamental avoidance, a primordial fear, a
contraction. In each moment, there is something that we don’t want to look
at—some idea, thought, perception, impulse, sensation, thing, or event. We
therefore turn away, look away, move away—and that fundamental
avoidance is the cause of the entire misery of humankind. In a chain
reaction, it creates one dualism after another, one fragmentation after
another, one brokenness after another—and a synonym for brokenness is
suffering.

One of the most common manifestations of this Primordial Avoidance is
the sensation of a type of vague but very noticeable tension, a type of selfcontracting, a tightening in experience. There is not a full Awareness of all
experience but a narrowed attention to just some of it, a focusing, a
constricting. But notice that even though there is this self-contracting
tension, you can be aware of it—and that which is Aware of this selfcontraction is itself free of it. Your Awareness is not identified with the
contraction; it is the Witness of it. And in that pure Awareness, everything is
arising easily, fully, and totally. That Awareness can include the selfcontraction as well, if it arises in this moment along with everything else,
and primordial Awareness is spontaneously, easily, and naturally Aware of
All of That—the birds are singing, the cars are honking, people are chatting,
clouds are floating by, and all of that is arising in this vast, open Clearing
that is Awareness itself.
So the key to all genuine mindfulness training with both the Witness
and One Taste is to recognize an ever-present, primordial Witnessing
Awareness that is not caught in avoidance but rather is always letting
absolutely everything (every single thing, event, and occasion) arise in
Awareness and spontaneously manifest itself just as it is. This everything is
exactly the totality of the Painting of All That Is. And like all paintings, all
of the present moment’s qualities are needed for the full Painting to even
make sense. We need the ups and downs, the light spaces and the dark, the
mountains and the valleys, the good and the evil, the pleasure and the pain,
the happiness and the sadness, in order for any of these qualities to manifest
at all. If we got rid of all evil and chased only good, got rid of all pain and
pursued only pleasure, got rid of all sadness and grasped only happiness,
this would be a world of all ups and no downs, all ins and no outs, all lefts
and no rights. When the Great Traditions unanimously say that
Enlightenment is being “freed from the pairs,” they mean the pairs of
opposites—ALL of the opposites. Spirit is not just good; it’s beyond both
good and evil. And it isn’t just pleasure; it’s beyond both pleasure and pain.
Nor is Spirit light, bliss, liberation, release, salvation, or any other concept

that makes sense only in terms of its opposite (remember that was
Nagarjuna’s point about Emptiness).
It’s what the Christian mystics call the coincidentia oppositorum, “the
coincidence of opposites” or the unity of opposites. To realize this is not to
be caught in seeking only one-half of any pair of opposites, which would
rip the universe right down the middle as we try to get rid of half of it.
(Alan Watts wrote a terrific book about the coincidentia oppositorum called
The Two Hands of God—God always has a left hand AND a right hand, and
they always go together, get it?)
Thus the first step with both the Witness and One Taste is to start by
resting in an all-inclusive Witnessing Awareness of the totality of the
Painting of All That Is. The key is to allow a Mirror-Mind Awareness to
function without any contracting, avoiding, looking away, or turning away
—experience all experience; allow all experience to fully arise, just as it is,
right now, and let all of it totally wash through you with no contracting and
no denial. Face everything; avoid nothing.
If you do find yourself avoiding something, or contracting, then fine—
simply notice that avoidance as well; simply let it be, and let it also arise in
Awareness just as it is. You don’t want to deny anything, but if you do, fine,
simply notice that denial. You don’t want to turn away from anything, but if
you do, fine, notice that as well. You can’t get this wrong. And you can’t,
because some part of your Awareness is always already getting it exactly
right. So merely notice what is already arising in your Awareness, and
notice that this Awareness itself is an all-embracing Mirror Mind: it
spontaneously and easily notices or witnesses everything that is occurring
moment to moment. Simply notice that present Awareness, that pure
Witnessing, and rest as that.
TWO STEPS IN THIS PRACTICE
The first step is the same in practicing both Witnessing and One Taste
(namely, simply Witness everything). You can tell the difference between
these two practices by seeing—as the second step in the practice—exactly

what relationship you are then supposed to take in relation to this Total
Painting.
The Total Painting, again, is the totality of all the phenomena that are
arising in any present moment—the totality of your present experience
(including any thoughts of the past, arising Now, and any thoughts of the
future, also arising Now—let them all arise as they wish). If you attempt to
become fully aware of this Total Painting by relentlessly Witnessing each
phenomenon that arises, without identifying with it, avoiding it, or turning
away, then those phenomena will appear as objects to the Witness and the
Witness itself will be completely Free of all objects. You will be a True
Subject, Absolute Subjectivity, and these objects will all appear “in front”
of you. If that is what you are doing, then you are doing a turiya practice (a
Witness practice), using a Mirror-Mind Awareness to fully Witness the Total
Painting.
If, on the other hand, you go one step further and dissolve the Witness
into the totality of the Total Painting of All That Is, then you no longer
Witness the Total Painting, you ARE the Total Painting.[1] You are no longer
standing back and Witnessing whatever is arising, you are fully one with it
—you are it, you are in One Taste. When this realization matures, it
represents a final realization beyond all dualisms whatsoever, a fully
Awakened Nondual Suchness. You no longer feel that you are a separate
self, different from everything, but you actually feel that you are one with
everything—a total Kosmic consciousness. As a Zen master exquisitely put
it, “When I heard the sound of the bell ringing, there was no bell and no I,
just the ringing.”
In most cases, you still want to enter the Witness fully before you go on
to recognize One Taste because, by completely being the Witness and
disidentifying with all the objects in the Total Painting—“I am not this, not
that”—you completely strip away any attachment to, any fixation on, and
any identity with any thing or event in manifestation. And because you have
disidentified with every single thing—“I’m not this, not that”—you can
then more readily become one with ALL things—“I am this, I am that—I’m
one with absolutely everything.” This can’t fully happen if you still have

any hidden identities with any particular thing or event, because that prior,
hidden identity with that thing will prevent a full and equal identity with
ALL things.
You want to move from being identified with just a select few items or a
group of items (including a bunch of objects that you have made into a
pretend subject that you call your “self”—which is the typical ego
condition, at any of its stages of Growing Up) to not being identified with a
single thing or event anywhere, which happens as you stand fully Free as
the empty Witness. And from this, you can then move into being one with
absolutely EVERY thing everywhere. The practice is quite literally to move
from something (the ego), to nothing (the Witness), to everything (One
Taste). Something to nothing to everything.
(Again, in the following chapters, we will carefully go over various
exercises and pointing-out instructions that will show you exactly how to
recognize the states of the Witness and One Taste.)
POINTING-OUT INSTRUCTIONS
There are, to speak very generally, two fundamental types of activities for
getting one’s awareness into the higher and highest states of consciousness.
These can be called “practice” and “recognition.” In a practice type of
meditation, you take up certain exercises and practice them, attempting to
get your awareness from a point where it is not in the higher state to a point
where it is in the higher state. The result of this practice is an
accomplishment, an achievement, something that you have attained—you
have moved your awareness from a lower state to a higher state. This is
probably the most common type of meditation, and it definitely works.
It works, that is, for getting into higher states, but not for the highest
state. You can get into higher states, because they are relative; they are not
ultimate states. They are not the highest state because the highest states are
absolute and ultimate, which means that they are eternal or timeless, which
means that they are ever-present, which means that they are fully the case
right here, right now, and there is no way whatsoever that they can be

entered, attained, or achieved. The very highest states are instead always
already the case—it is simply impossible to enter them, or move from a
point where they are not to a point where they are, because there is no point
where they are not. They are ultimate, absolute, all-pervading, allembracing, all-inclusive, unborn (they have no beginning in time), undying
(they have no ending in time), always already the case, and fully everpresent.
These states in their true nature are not so much like states as they are
like ever-present conditions. Maslow called them “plateau experiences,”
which are essentially permanent, instead of “peak experiences,” which are
temporary. Relative states are different from other relative states, and as one
state comes to be, other states are pushed out—you can’t be drunk and
sober at the same time; you can’t be straight and high at the same time; you
can’t be in a deep dreamless state and a dream state at the same time; and so
on. Relative states alternate with each other; they take turns.
But ultimate states are not different from other states; they are
something that is present with all states, underlying all states as a constant
background reality. This is true of the Witness, which is always fully
present and changeless as all states come and go. The Witness does not
come or go, it ceaselessly Witnesses all states as they come and go. (And
when you realize or recognize the Witness, you will also notice that it has
always been present even though you didn’t recognize that it was. You are
Witnessing right now, whether or not you are aware of it.) The same is true
for One Taste—it doesn’t come or go, and it doesn’t alternate with states; it
exists underneath all states and fully embraces and enfolds all of them. This
is why both the Witness/turiya and One Taste/turiyatita are always listed as
the two major ultimate states of consciousness. The gross, subtle, and
causal, by contrast, are relative states; they come and go in time, last a
while and then shift, but none of them are ever-present, timeless, or
ultimate.
So the action that is needed here, for these ultimate states, is not practice
but simple recognition or realization—that is, the teacher points out this
highest state, often by simply talking about it, until you recognize

something that is already there. And when you recognize that always
already state, you will also realize that it has, indeed, always been there,
fully present and fully functioning, but you simply did not notice it. Thus,
you have not really entered this state—you have always been in it—and you
are simply recognizing or realizing something that is always already the
case. (As we just said, you might notice this with the Witness. Whenever
you “get in” it, you can notice that it has always been the case, and you are
simply recognizing this in yourself.)
Zen famously calls this your “Original Face,” which is “the face you
had before your parents were born.” That doesn’t mean that it existed at a
point in time before your parents were born but rather that it simply doesn’t
enter the stream of time in the first place; it is prior to time altogether. Your
Original Face, your Real Being, is prior to your parents’ birth, prior to the
birth of the solar system, and prior to the spacetime created by the Big Bang
simply because it is prior to time, period.
To see what this means, start by relaxing into a Witnessing Awareness
and simply witness the present moment. Notice that this present moment
arises, exists for a second or two, and then fades into the past, as a new
present moment arises and comes to your Awareness and the old moment
becomes a memory. The new moment lasts for a brief second or so, and
then it fades into the past as well, and a new moment arises. And this
movement is constant, it just goes on and on and on. The Christian mystics
call this the nunc fluens, “the flowing present,” or “the passing present.”
But notice the Witness itself. Notice the Awareness of this passing
present, a passing present that moves continuously from present to past. The
pure Witness of this moment does not itself change; it’s just a constant
Presence, a pure unmoving point of being Aware, a true constant Mirror
Mind. It merely watches the passing present arise, stay a bit, and pass; arise,
stay a bit, and pass. The Witness remains completely unmoved and
unmoving, a pure, unending Present or timeless Now—what Daniel P.
Brown calls a “Boundless, Changeless Awareness.”
The Christian mystics call this unchanging Present the nunc stans, “the
standing present,” or “the unmoving present,” or “the timeless Now.”

According to them, the real Present, the eternal Present, the Divine Present,
is this Standing Present, not the passing present—the nunc stans, not the
nunc fluens. It exists fully as this never-ending Present. This timeless Now
does not come into being or fade into the past—it is an ever-present,
unchanging, pure Present. The passing present, your thoughts of the future,
and your memories of the past all arise in this unending Present. As
Schrödinger put it, “The present is the only thing that has no end.”[2]
The Witness is always aware in this timeless Now. It is from this
unchanging, timeless, motionless Present Awareness that the Witness sees
everything that arises. This Standing Present is Aware of the passing present
and everything in it—present experiences, past memories, future thoughts
—all of them arising in this ever-present timeless Now. The Standing
Present, which is unchanging, is fully aware of the passing present, which
does nothing but change.
In other words, this pure Witness or Witnessing Awareness is always
existing in the ever-present timeless Now. Usually, if you are given a
mindfulness practice, you will be told to focus your attention on the
immediate present moment, and pay no attention at all to past or future
events. This is called “being aware of just the immediate present.” But all
this will get you is the nunc fluens, the passing present; it will not get you
the real nunc stans, the timeless Now—and that timeless Now is not hard to
attain but impossible to avoid.
To see this—and to see that the Witness is always fully existing in the
timeless Now (your “Original Face”)—I will ask you to repeat the
experiment that we first performed when we were discussing the meaning
of eternity as a never-ending, timeless Now. Think about some event that
you believe exists in the past. Picture this past event as clearly and as
vividly as you can. Notice that all you are actually aware of is a memory
and that memory exists only in this Now-moment. And when that event
actually occurred, when it really existed, it was itself a Now-moment. In
either case, all you are ever actually aware of is the Now-moment.
Likewise, think of something you believe will exist in the future. Notice
that is just a thought and that thought only exists right here, in this Now-

moment. And if it ever becomes a real event, it will then occur only in a
Now-moment.
In other words, the only time you are ever really aware of is the Nowmoment and that Now-moment is not hard to attain but impossible to avoid.
It’s always already the case; it’s absolutely ever-present (or eternal).
So the Witness—because it deals only with Realities—is always
operating fully in this Now-moment, and the passing present moves through
the Space of that unchanging, ever-present, timeless Now. The contents of
Awareness exist in time; the Awareness itself does not. Awareness itself is
operating in a constantly present, ever-present, timeless Now. And this is all
happening whether or not you realize it. But hopefully, with some pointing
out like this, you will start to recognize this ever-present, timeless Now,
which does not exclude the past and future but fully embraces them and is
not a narrow slit of passing, present awareness but a vast, all-inclusive, allembracing Awareness.
This is your Original Face. It exists prior to your parents’ birth because
it exists prior to time, period. Another way to say this is that it’s prior to
time because it is indeed eternal—as long as we remember that eternity
does not mean going on in time forever; it means a point without time, fully
existing in the timeless Now. We saw that Wittgenstein absolutely nailed
something that pretty much every mystic the world over agrees with: “If we
take eternity to mean, not everlasting temporal duration, but a moment
without time, then eternal life belongs to those who live in the present.”[3]
There will never be a future time where it will be more present than it
already is right now. Never. Whatever comes into existence tomorrow but is
not present Now is strictly temporal, not eternal. This is why Shankara, the
major founder of Advaita Vedanta, said that Self-Realization could not be
attained, because if it were attained, it would have a beginning in time and
thus be strictly temporal, not eternal—and thus not a genuine SelfRealization.
Its utter Simplicity is one reason we can so easily miss it, not notice it,
not realize it. An example of this utter Simplicity is your own I AMness
(which is the Witness existing in you right now). We saw that this is exactly

what Christ was talking about when he said, “Before Abraham was, I AM.”
This sense of I AMness, like the Witness, is always ever-present, but we
almost always miss its profundity because (precisely due to its Simplicity)
we quickly identify it with something more complex. Then it’s not just a
pure and immediate I AMness, just as it is, but I AM this or I AM that—I
AM a doctor, lawyer, student, or actress; I AM this tall and I weigh this
much and I go to this school and I work at this job—and on and on. We
never realize the timeless, ever-present, pure I AMness for the simple
feeling of Being that it is.
AWAKENING TO I AMNESS
The simple feeling of Being can become especially obvious if you do some
sort of dream yoga, where you will learn to keep Awareness, or stay awake,
even in various dream states. You start out, in the waking state, identified
with hundreds or thousands of things—especially things from the gross or
physical state itself—for example, your profession; your wealth; your gross
desires, wants, and wishes; your car; your house. In the waking state, your I
AMness is identified with your relationship to all of these gross objects, and
thus you do not recognize the simple feeling of Being—you are always I
AM this or I AM that, where “this” and “that” are a network of mostly gross
or physical objects. You never realize I AMness itself.
Then you pass into the dream state, but because of your meditative
practice (and yes, this is a practice), you remain aware that you are
dreaming—that is, you lucid dream. Now you are no longer identified with
any gross objects because they are all gone (there is no nature, no Gaia, no
physical reality). You are now aware of subtle objects in the dream state:
luminous images, impulses, and vibrant visions. And you—your I AMness
(your Witness)—now identify with various subtle objects and images and
get lost in an awareness of them. Once again, you do not recognize the utter
simplicity of an ever-present Presence, your True Self. You remain
identified instead with some sort of separate-self sense, albeit now a subtle
self-sense.

Then you pass into the deep dreamless state—the causal state—the very
end limit of which is a pure, formless, unmanifest nothingness, a vast
emptiness, an infinite abyss. And yet, due to your meditative dream-yoga
practice, you remain tacitly aware in this state (and there is considerable
research that uses EEGs to investigate brain activity during sleep that shows
that these states are indeed possible—that is, an awareness in the deep
dreamless state is definitely possible). Yet now, in this dreamless state, there
are no objects of any kind—there is literally nothing to identify with. And
yet you are still aware; and you notice that the one thing you are still aware
of is the only thing that still exists, and that is the simple feeling of a
witnessing I AMness that is still present, because it is ever-present, always
already the case, and fully present in all states, including the deep dreamless
state.
Here, at the end limit of the causal—where there is nothing left to
identify with, nothing left to confuse your I AMness with—you might
suddenly recognize this ever-present I AMness just as it is. You have
recognized the pure turiya state beyond the causal, the 4th state of the pure
Witness or pure I AMness.
Thus you come to realize that all the things that you had called yourself
in normal life were not your True Self but were just some gross, subtle, or
causal objects that existed in time, were relative, and came and went in the
temporal stream, and thus were finite, mortal, and inherently suffering. This
isn’t who you really are at all. You are the infinite, eternal, vast, and
unbounded Ground of Being that is Unborn and Undying.
Everybody has some degree of this ever-present I AMness, because, for
example—as Ramana Maharshi himself would often point out—even when
they go to sleep, let go of their gross ego, and pass through states like
dreaming and deep sleep, they still wake up in the morning and say, “I slept
great!” They know that there is something in them that doesn’t change.
As you recognize this ever-present I AMness, you will also recognize
that this is the same feeling of Being that you have always had. As far back
as you can remember (which is as far back as time goes in your own
individual case), you were always this basic I AMness—you can never

remember a time when you weren’t you. This fundamental Witness was
always the knowing aspect of your present Awareness, the “who” of your
consciousness, existing in the Standing Present, but you never recognized it
because you almost immediately identified it with something that was
known in the passing present—with this or that object, with some thing,
quality, trait, or characteristic (your ego), and thus you always missed the
simple feeling of Being itself and got lost in the world of separate things
and events, suffering and torment, and illusion and destitution.
The gross (waking), subtle (dreaming), and causal (deep sleep) states
are all relative states. They all exist in the stream of time, the stream of the
passing present; they all begin, they stay a while, and they go; they all can
be practiced, attained, and achieved—therefore they all can be objects of a
practice type of meditation (such as dream yoga). The 4th state—turiya, the
Witness, or I AMness—and the 5th state—turiyatita, Suchness, or One
Taste—are both absolute or ultimate states: they are timeless, ever present,
always already; and they are infinite, all-inclusive, and all-embracing.[4]
They are always already fully present and fully functioning in the timeless
Now, so they cannot be entered into, attained, or achieved; they can only be
recognized or realized. The timeless Now or Standing Present easily and
fully embraces the past, the present, and the future—it allows all past
thoughts, all present thoughts, and all future thoughts to fully arise right
now in the ever-present Standing Present, which is thus truly all-inclusive
and all-pervading.
And unlike the passing present, which excludes thoughts of the past and
the future, the Standing Present fully includes all of them and allows all of
them to arise as they wish—they’re all equally arising in the timeless Now
and fully embraced by it. (This is why the Christian mystics maintain that
only the nunc stans or Standing Present is the Real, True, and Divine
Present, whereas the nunc fluens or passing present is the core of the
temporal and illusory world.)
So this is the “nonpractice” of recognition. It is not entering a state that
you were not previously in but have, through practice, brought about; it is
the simple and immediate recognition of a state that has always been

present but which you have not fully noticed. There is a slight paradox here,
in that it could be said that although this state has always been present, the
noticing or recognition of it has not, and therefore there is some sort of
beginning, entering, or achieving here. And from one perspective that is
true. This is why Zen will say paradoxical things like, “If in the Tao there is
any discipline [or practice], then the completion of that discipline marks the
destruction of the Tao. But if there is no discipline, one remains an idiot.”
Fair enough. But the recognition itself, in virtually every case, carries with
it the realization that not only was the state always present, you also always
knew it. This is Zen’s “gateless gate”—on this side of the gate (the gate to
Enlightenment), it looks like there is a real gate. But when you pass through
it and turn around and look back, you can’t see any gate at all—there isn’t a
gate, and there never was one. Welcome to the paradox of instruction: you
need a satori to realize that you don’t need a satori!
These kinds of paradoxes ultimately occur, as we’ve already seen with
Nagarjuna, because we are forced to discuss these issues using concepts
that make sense only in terms of their opposites, so we are using fragments
to try and explain the Whole. So until we explore some pointing-out
instructions for actual Realization—which we’ll do in the next chapter and
where you can directly see for yourself—the closest approximation to
reality is to take both sides of this paradox as being equally true.
However you want to split that difference, make no mistake on the
fundamental issue: what you are ultimately attempting to realize is a state
that is indeed fully present right now and cannot in any sense be attained or
achieved. If the Ground of All Being were not fully present right now, then
you would simply cease to exist. Be as clear about that as you can be. The
Prajnaparamita Sutras—the fundamental texts of Mahayana Buddhism—
repeat over and over again that if you would only understand that
Enlightenment itself is absolutely unattainable, then you would be fully
Enlightened. That’s the word they use—unattainable. And Enlightenment is
indeed unattainable—it cannot be attained—because it is already fully
present; you can no more attain Enlightenment than you can attain your
lungs or acquire your feet. So what are pointing-out instructions? You come

to the teacher and innocently look them in the eyes and maintain that you’re
not Enlightened but really want to be. And a real teacher—who sees you
saying that you have no feet and could they help you attain your feet—does
not give you practices that will help you pretend to attain your feet; instead
they just start stomping on your feet until you yell, “Okay, I see them! And
yes, I’ve always had them!”
That “stomping” constitutes the pointing-out instructions for a real
“gateless gate.” And that’s what we’re going to be doing here. Over the
years, there have been dozens—probably hundreds—of pointing-out
instructions that have really struck home for me and made utterly obvious
that which I had always known. Let me tell you two that meant a great deal
to me.
One was very simple, one sentence from Sri Ramana Maharshi: “That
which is not present in deep dreamless sleep is not real.” This was
enormously disturbing to me, because by then I had been practicing Zen
meditation for almost a decade and had had several confirmed kensho or
satori realizations. It was simply pointing to that ever-present I AMness that
is not a relative state different from other states, or one that comes and goes
and exists in time. Rather, it’s something that is present in all states, an
ever-present Mirror Mind that is aware of, and fully present in, ALL states
and that does not come and go with any state but is indeed an ever-present
Witnessing of all states. It’s a constant consciousness, and as far as temporal
states go, this means it is present twenty-four hours a day—including in
deep dreamless sleep. Ramana’s statement pointed out something everpresent that I had, at least to some degree, not fully recognized until that
point.
The other one has to do with my root teacher in Dzogchen Buddhism
(which is often claimed to be the very highest of the Buddha’s teachings).
During winter retreats, he sometimes kept his door open, and students could
come in and ask him questions anytime they wanted. If you were quiet, you
could often sit in the corner and listen. And one thing kept happening over
and over again. Students would come in and say variations on, “I finally see
it! I can’t believe it! About an hour ago I was sitting there, meditating, and

all of a sudden I became one with everything, and I disappeared and
became the all. Why didn’t I see this before?!”
And he would always say, “Did this have a beginning in time?” And the
student would say, “Yes, like I said, about an hour ago.” He would respond,
“That’s very nice. But I want you to come back when you can show me that
which does not have a beginning in time. Come back when you see that.”
He wanted them to recognize that which was ever-present, always
already the case—something that did not have a beginning in time but
rather was always Now. And 100 percent of that Enlightened Mind is in
your own awareness, right here and right now. Not 90 percent of it, not 95
percent of it—100 percent of it. You will never attain that. So start looking
around in your own Awareness, the way it is arising right now, moment to
moment, just as it is—and prepare to be surprised.
And I will be using some pointing-out instructions to help you do just
that.
The fundamental ideas that we will be working to recognize in the next
few chapters on Waking Up are the major states of the Witness and One
Taste (the 4th and 5th states, the two ultimate states that cannot be attained
but only recognized), with their primary characteristics of Freedom and
Fullness, respectively, and their predominant feeling tones, which are,
respectively, Bliss and Love. The Freedom of the Witness is felt as Bliss,
and the Fullness of One Taste is felt as Love. The core of them are present
right now, whether you know it or not—and if you don’t, I’ll be stomping
on those feet, especially as we get into Integral sexual Tantra. We’ll simply
be talking about those things, going over the same points with minor
variations, and repeating central themes once or twice in the main
presentation, until you recognize these ultimate ever-present states in your
own awareness.
Shall we begin?
OceanofPDF.com

16
Pointing Out the Witness and One
Taste
So let’s start by going back and reviewing the two major states themselves,
Witnessing and One Taste. Recognizing either (or both) of those states is
your direct introduction to that which is Ultimate in you—and thus your
introduction to your own Realization, Awakening, Enlightenment, Waking
Up.
THE WITNESS, ROUND 1
We said that, allowing Awareness to be conscious of the sum total of the
phenomena of the Total Painting of All That Is, if you then attempt to stand
Free and Witness all of these phenomena—Witness all your present
experience with no avoidance of anything—then those phenomena will all
appear as objects to the Witness, a Witness that itself is pure Subject or
Absolute Subjectivity. Resting as the Witness, a Boundless Changeless
Awareness, you will be in the timeless Now, the Standing Present, and all
experience, things, and events will be arising “in front” of you as the
passing present, and you will be fully, easily, and equally Aware of all of
this. All phenomena will appear as objects that arise in front of the Witness,
and as the Witness, you are not identified with any of them—in other
words, you are truly Free of absolutely all of them, free of manifestation
itself—the Great Liberation.

In completely Witnessing the Total Painting, which arises in front of the
Witness, you discover primordial Freedom, radical Release, infinite Letting
Go. The Witness, if it spoke, might say, “I see the mountain, but I am not
the mountain; I am Free of it. I have sensations, but I am not those
sensations; I am Free of them. I have feelings, but I am not those feelings; I
am Free of them. I have thoughts, but I am not those thoughts; I am Free of
them.” Hence, this is indeed the Great Liberation, Enlightenment as radical
Emancipation. This is a nirvana absolutely free of all samsara.
Suppose I were to ask you, “Who are you?” Get a sheet of paper, and
write down your answers to that question. You might include things like my
name is such-and-such; I’m this tall and weigh this much; I graduated with
a degree in such-and-such; I make this much money; I live in a house
whose address is such-and-such; I have a romantic partner whose name is
so-and-so; I like these types of movies; I read these kinds of books; I enjoy
video games; I have several pets including two dogs; my hobbies are suchand-such; I enjoy this kind of food, and so on. Notice, however, that as you
were thinking of all of those characteristics, you were seeing them as
objects—all of them are objects of awareness—none of them are a true
Subject or your true Self. Those objects are, in other words, exactly what
you are not. They are all illusory, pretend selves or pretend subjects; none
of them is your true Subject. They are all things that can be seen; they are
not the true Seer, not your true Self. Everything that you think is your true
Self—and that you wrote down on the sheet of paper—is exactly what you
are not. Your true Self is neti, neti—not this, not that—radically Free of all
objects. It is a pure Subject or Absolute Subjectivity.
Proceed with this type of radical disidentification until you can truly
recognize the basic and profound Freedom at your very core. That
realization is central to the mature forms of any spiritual Realization and
Enlightenment and is your introduction to a truly Ultimate state, that of
turiya. This practice is particularly helpful with negative, frightening, or
intensely uncomfortable states. Simply practice Witnessing them directly,
with the understanding that “I am fully aware of this state of pain, anxiety,
or depression; I have this state, but I am not this state”—and truly get that

“therefore I am Free of it.” Right now, if you are aware of your body, you
immediately know that you are not your body (you’re seeing it as an object,
so it’s not your True Subject). Likewise, if you are aware of your mind (or
thoughts), it will be just as obvious that you are not your mind (it’s just
another series of passing thoughts, perfectly seen objects, so it’s not your
True Subject). “I have a body and mind, but I am not my body or mind.”
You should feel a genuine release, a letting go, an opening, a clearing, a
freeing—and a type of happiness or joy at being that Free.
The True Self is the pure Seer, which itself can never be seen. So when
you go in search of this True Self, you won’t see it. Whatever is arising is
just fine; simply let it arise, with the awareness that “I am not this, not that.”
Rest as the true Witness of this and every moment, simply relaxing in the
pure Present and not identifying with anything that is arising, letting it all
go. All that you will be aware of is a genuine sense of vast Freedom, deep
Release, radical Letting Go. Instead of being identified with some isolated
self-image, self-concept, or egoic contraction, you are an all-seeing
atmosphere of pure Awareness, a Mirror Mind that effortlessly reflects
every single thing and event in experience but identifies with, or gets stuck
to, none of them. You are a pure Mirror Mind of neti, neti, an effortless,
easy Awareness that is not identified with any of its contents but simply
rests as an infinite and completely released Freedom, totally beyond any of
the self-contracting torment, torture, agony, and pain that haunts all things,
objects, and events of the manifest world—a torture your ego knows all too
well, and a torture the Witness is radically Free of. And it’s not that various
sorts of torments cease entirely to arise; it’s rather “Who cares if they
do?”—they’re just more transitory objects that come and go and are simply
Witnessed like everything else. Some things might even hurt more, but they
bother you less.
The entire objective world is arising, and you are Free of all of it,
including all the objects that you can see by looking within—ideas, desires,
needs, motivations, goals, images, and concepts. All of those interior
objects, like all the exterior objects that you see, are exactly what you are
not. None of them are your True Subject. In place of an identity with some

set of ideas, things, and images—with some sort of ego—there is simply
this vast Openness, Emptiness, Spaciousness, and radical Freedom. When
you realize that you are truly neti, neti, the whole sense of being a selfcontraction, a skin-encapsulated ego, gives way to being radically and
totally Free, Liberated, Unbound. This is your Original Face, the face you
had before your parents were born, the face you had before the universe
itself was born, before the stream of time came rushing into existence to
bind us with its nightmares and tortures. I am no longer the victim of Life; I
am the Witness of Life.
This True Self is your own fundamental I AMness. This sense of I
AMness is, like the Witness, an ever-present, timeless Reality. When Christ
said, “Before Abraham was, I AM,” he intuited this fundamental and
timeless turiya. You, too, can say exactly the same thing as Christ did—
your own I AMness carries that same timelessness and real eternity.
Think about what you were doing a week ago at this time. You probably
can’t remember any details of your thoughts or behavior, but one thing is
certain: the sense of I AMness was there. Think about what you were doing
a month ago—and again, even if you can’t remember any details of what
happened, you know that I AMness was there—and it’s the same sense of I
AMness that you have now, because I AMness, as the pure Seer, has no
qualities or characteristics (it’s pure Openness or Emptiness) that could
change over time. It has nothing that moves in time.
So think back even a year ago—the same I AMness was definitely there.
What about a decade ago, what about a century ago, what about a
millennium ago? There is the same timeless, ever-present I AMness, which
does not enter the stream of time and therefore exists prior to your parents’
birth, prior to this solar system’s birth, prior to the Big Bang, and prior to
the stream of time altogether.
Erwin Schrödinger tells a beautiful story about a person who, he says,
many centuries ago sat on the same spot that you now do; like you, this
person looked with longing in their heart as they watched the sun set; like
you, they were born of woman and suffered pain; like you they had wishes,
goals, desires; like you they had dreams and visions and yearned mightily.

And then comes the extraordinary punchline: “Was this somebody else?
Was this not you yourself?”
Incredible. In that person’s pure I AMness, they were the same I
AMness that you now are (“Was this not you yourself?”). The Traditions are
unanimous here: the number of I AM’s is but one—one Self, one Spirit, one
Reality. Or, as Schrödinger gorgeously puts it, “Consciousness is a singular
the plural of which is unknown.”[1] This is why, when you deeply realize
your own I AMness, you realize that you will never die—you truly are
timeless and eternal (and you know that the deepest part of you won’t die,
don’t you?—and that’s a close realization of eternity). This does not mean
that your physical body won’t die. It means that there is a deeper part of you
that doesn’t touch the stream of time at all—and that part of you is Unborn
(it has never entered the stream of time) and Undying (and therefore it will
never leave the stream of time, either). As the one and only I AMness, you
are present in all sentient beings and look out through their eyes at the
world that you have enacted. Above and below, you are the Only One. And
it’s in this Onlyness that your infinite Freedom shines.
Because the Witness is totally Free of all objects—not attached to
anything in the passing present—it is itself a real Emptiness (empty of all
thoughts and all things). This also means that the true Self can never be
made an object—the real Seer can never be seen—it metaphorically is what
Zen Master Shibayama calls “Absolute Subjectivity”—which is a “Big
Subject” or “Big Self” beyond any small subject or small self, not to
mention beyond all objects. This is the I-I, the Knower that can never be
known; the cognitive Blissfulness that cannot itself be cognized; the everpresent I AMness that cannot be objectified or made into a specific identity
with anything. Thus, it can never be bound or limited and is truly,
profoundly, and always Free—precisely as you are in your own deepest
core. And realize it or not, this is always already the case.

ONE TASTE, ROUND 1
Notice that this True Self, as turiya or the 4th state, is not quite the ultimate,
nondual Reality (which is the final and 5th state). This True Self is very
real; it’s timeless and eternal; it’s ultimate and not disputable—but
(paradoxically) it’s not quite the most ultimate. If we take self to mean any
sort of sensation that sets itself apart from, or is different than, some sort of
“other” (and all selves do), then this True Self could not possibly be a
radically nondual Ultimate state, because the Ultimate state is not divided
and split into a self versus an other or a subject (not even an Absolute
Subject) versus an object. Remember that, to the Witness, the entire world
does appear as “other”—it appears “in front.” This is why the Witness is
indeed an Absolute Subjectivity—it is, in the final analysis, a subjective or
a self condition, not a unified or nondual condition. This is exactly why
Daniel P. Brown, who names this 4th state “Boundless, Changeless
Awareness,” also maintains that it is the penultimate state (it is the 4th of
his 5 major states), and he says that the illusory part of this state is what he
calls “individuality.” In other words, turiya introduces the very beginning of
the dualistic condition, which is that of a subject versus an object (or
individuality, which is accompanied, in Integral Metatheory, by the duality
of single versus plural, which gives the 4 quadrants, which are the actual
beginning of duality, which if seen apart from ultimate Spirit, is the
beginning of illusion). So this True Self is both the very highest reality in
the dualistic realm and the final barrier to the ultimate nondual realm. It is
the highest pointer and the final obstacle.
This is why, even if you are established in a profound and ever-present
Witnessing state, you still have one more (very small) step to go in order to
realize your truest and deepest Reality. We saw that both the Witness and
One Taste are perfectly Aware of the totality of the Painting of All That Is
(and so both of them are correctly referred to, in the final analysis, as
“ultimate states,” so don’t let that part confuse you). The Witness has
managed to step back from that Total Painting and to Witness all of it with
perfect equanimity and an evenly hovering Mirror-Mind Awareness, tacitly

and blissfully thrilled with its utter Release and Freedom from all that is,
remaining in a condition of radical Emptiness or vast Spaciousness (in
itself, a pure nirvana free of all samsara). The Witness is witnessing the
entire world as object, and its own Emptiness is the cognizing aspect of
each moment, the aspect that “sees,” “looks at,” or “knows” each and every
phenomenon, thus converting them to objects “in front,” while the Witness
stands Free of them in its own Emptiness.
The required final step into the 5th state of One Taste is to continue
Witnessing all of the Total Painting, remaining as an unperturbed Seer who
is Looking at each and every thing, and then to gently but fully relax this
Witness into everything that is being witnessed. So you go from merely
Looking at the mountain to simply being the mountain; you no longer see
the clouds, you are the clouds; you no longer feel the earth, you are the
earth; you no longer see the sun, you are the sun. This nondual Oneness
means that the very sensation of being a Looker (or Witness) actually turns
out to be utterly identical to the sensation of that which is being looked at.
In other words, if you feel the Witness or Looker right now, then focus
directly on the feeling of what you are looking at—it could be a tree, a car,
a building, a computer screen—they turn out to be one and the same
feeling. Suddenly, “out there” and “in here” both evaporate into “just
this”—this single present experience of Thusness or Suchness—One Taste.
There’s actually a very easy way to fully realize this nondual state of
Oneness. Following Douglas Harding’s simple exercise, I often call this
One Taste Awareness the “headless” state.[2] Harding’s description of this
headless state is an incredibly effective pointing-out instruction for getting
into One Taste. As Harding himself puts it, notice in this moment that “you
can’t really see your head”—not directly. If you focus on the area where
your head is, all that you will see are two fleshy blobs, which is your nose.
But as for your complete head itself, it’s just not there; you can’t see it. You
might feel that you are looking out of your head at the world around you,
but your head itself is not something you can see. You’re actually
“headless.”

So here are the pointing-out instructions. While looking out at the
world, pick an object that you can clearly see—a mountain, a building, a
car, a tree, the book in front of you. Try doing that right now—select an
object and look directly at it.
While looking at this object, focus on the area of your head. You will
notice that, instead of seeing a head just sitting there on your shoulders, you
actually see the object itself—for example, the building—sitting directly
right there, on your shoulders, right where your head used to be. The
building isn’t “out there,” on the other side of your face; it’s actually arising
“right here,” on this side of your face—the building, in fact, is arising
within you. It is arising in the empty space where you thought your head
was. In fact, everything you’re now looking at is arising right in the space
where you thought your head was—there’s no separation at all. If this
insight clicks, then you’ll realize that, no matter what you are looking at,
there isn’t an “in here” that is separate from an “out there” that it stands
back from and looks at—there is “just this” single experience, which is the
object arising on this side of your face right where your head used to be.
This is such an obvious experience that “out there” and “in here” actually
start to lose any meaning. When we say that “the mountain is appearing on
this side of your face, right where your head used to be,” all that really
means is that there is no separation between subject and object; there is just
a single present-given experience, and you are the totality of that single
experience (since it is arising “on this side of your face,” right where your
head used to be, although “this side” and “that side” start to lose all
meaning). In other words, moment to moment, the entire universe is arising
within you (and there is no separate “you”; there is just this).
And when everything that seemed “out there” is realized to be arising
“on this side of your face,” right where you thought your head was, then the
very feeling of the space on “this side of your face”—since it is now
perfectly one with everything “out there”—explodes to include or embrace
the total expanse of all that is “out there.” It expands to include the vast
spaciousness of All Space, and you are now totally one with every bit of
that All Space (which is arising where your head used to be—except your

head, and your own Being, is now EVERYTHING—and Everything is
arising exactly where your head used to be). This is the subject/object
duality collapsing into a single Nondual unitary experience—One Taste.
I like to quote Trungpa Rinpoche in this regard. He nailed the
description of the experience of enlightened One Taste. While explaining
what the experience of the final stage of the path, maha ati, was like, he
said, “The sky turns into a blue pancake and drops on our head.”[3] That’s
very funny, but that’s also exactly what it feels like. What you thought of as
a “sky” that was “out there” or “up there” is actually a big blue pancake that
is sitting exactly where you thought your head was—there’s no separation
between you and the entire sky—you are that sky, and it’s sitting right
where your head used to be. You can actually taste the sky, it’s that close.
This simple metaphor—“having no head”—turns out to be a very easy,
very obvious pointer to an ever-present Awareness that is a pure turiyatita, a
pure One Taste Awareness. By using the gimmick of seeing that we have no
head—and that the entire world is actually arising “in here,” right where our
head used to be—we are plugging into a profoundly deep reality where
there is no subject versus object and the world is not idiotically split up into
one state that sees and one state that is seen. Instead it is arising as a single
totality that is seamless but not featureless. If you feel your “self”
(“located” in your head) and then feel this “totality,” they are exactly the
same feeling (the big blue pancake has fallen on your head)—and thus you
no longer witness the world, but you are the world. The entire universe is
arising within you, where there is no “within” and no “you”—just this, just
Thusness or Suchness, exactly as it is arising, which is right where your
head of “individuality” used to be.
When what Daniel Brown referred to as “individuality” dissolves—
because it has become one with everything—then you are indeed in One
Taste, the highest and most ultimate state there is. The dissolving of
individuality is what I meant by saying, just above, “where your head of
‘individuality’ used to be.” The feeling of being an individual self versus an
other marks the 4th state and keeps you out of the 5th state. It is the last
barrier to a pure Nonduality, and it happens because you identify with the

space right behind your eyes and feel that you are looking out at the world
from there, imagining that that is where your individual self resides (your
“individuality”). But when the entire sky has turned into a big blue pancake
and falls on your head, suddenly there’s no room left “in here” for your
individuality (because there’s no “in here” left at all). The place where your
individuality once existed—your head—has now disappeared as a separate
something, and so your individuality likewise disappears. It dissolves into a
oneness with the sky (and everything else), leaving room for nothing but the
unity of the 5th state of One Taste—a Kosmic consciousness or ultimate
Unity consciousness. You are One with everything that you perceive—a
true One Taste experience. Welcome home!!!
THE WITNESS, ROUND 2
For some different pointing-out instructions, let’s go back to the start and
take a different approach to both of these Ultimate states.
We begin by resting in our own pure Witnessing Awareness, which is
not any content of Awareness. It is an Absolute Subjectivity, which is not an
object or a small subject. It is nothing that can be specifically seen; it is just
a vast, pure, open, empty Witness or Spaciousness, an Opening or Clearing
in which everything is arising moment to moment.
This means that I am also resting in the timeless Now, the Standing
Present; and this is not the immediate, passing present, which is different
from the past and the future and hence is merely the passing moment, but
rather is the timeless Now, which recognizes that all past memories and all
future thoughts are both fully occurring in this Now-moment. And so the
boundaries to this Now-moment explode, and it embraces all time—all past,
all passing-present, and all future occur in, and move through, this timeless
Now, this Standing Present. I easily and fully Witness everything from the
point of this ever-present, all-embracing, timeless Now-moment, which—
itself Boundless, Changeless, and Unmoving—watches the entire moving
world move through the Spaciousness of this timeless Now. As the Standing

Present, I watch the passing present. The passing present is in constant
motion; the Standing Present does not move.
Thus I disidentify with any and every thing that can be seen, felt, or
perceived—resting in my own pure I AMness, where I AM not this, not
that. I am just the simple feeling of I AMness before I am anything in
particular. I am pure, free, open, spacious, clear, and empty Witnessing
Awareness, and I am Aware of the totality of the Painting of All That Is—
while being utterly Free of All of it.
At this stage, I want to emphasize the all-inclusive nature of the Total
Painting. We want to be aware of everything, to avoid nothing. Our practice
should focus on not allowing the slightest avoidance, contraction, grasping,
or turning away. If any of these occur, then fine, be aware of them. Do not
avoid any experience whatsoever. Face everything, avoid nothing.
Experience all your experience. Let everything freely arise, as it is, just as it
is. This requires no effort at all—on the contrary, it is an entirely effortless
endeavor. And remember, you can’t get it wrong.
Then, as we already noted, you can pursue one of two different paths
(namely, you can continue Witnessing, or you can move on to One Taste;
we’ll pursue continuing Witnessing first, and then One Taste). Here, I want
to emphasize that, as a Mirror-Mind Awareness of the Total Painting, you
are standing back from all experience, while allowing all experience to
arise as it wishes. And while standing back from all experience, you simply
Witness it. You are not pushing it, pulling it, avoiding it, desiring it,
grasping it, judging it, or identifying with it. (And again, if any of these
arise, that’s just fine, you simply Witness them.)
You are already fully cognizant of this I AMness right now—you are
easily aware of the simple feeling of Being. In other words, you have a
clear sense of being you right now—and that simple sensation of I AMness
is the full I AMness; that’s it, you’re already home. Just remain with that I
AM-Awareness, in an ongoing, moment-to-moment fashion, in the Standing
Present. This means Witnessing the entire Total Painting as being “not me,”
as something that my I AMness is not identified with in the slightest—“I
have feelings, but I am not those feelings; I am Free of them. I have

thoughts, but I am not those thoughts; I am Free of them.” All the
phenomena of the entire Total Painting become not just “phenomena” but
actual “objects.” They appear “in front” of the Witness, and the Witness
itself is felt as a True Subject, a Real Self, an Absolute Subjectivity, a pure
I-I.
The phrase I-I is Sri Ramana Maharshi’s term for one’s Original Face,
one’s True Nature, one’s Real Self—and he used that term because, as the
Witness, the pure “I” is, right now, aware of the little “I” or the ego. You
can be self-aware right now—that is, you can see the ego, the little “I,”
because it’s not the True Seer, the Real Self; it’s just another object that can
be seen. The True Self is the Real Subject, which sees all objects, including
the little ego or “I,” so it’s experienced as a pure “I” that is Witnessing the
small self or false “I.” It’s an “I-I”—a pure I AMness aware of the small
ego-I, and it is itself felt as a radically unending Clearing, Freedom,
Vastness, Spaciousness, and transparent Openness.
There’s a very simple test to see if you are doing Witnessing practice
correctly. You will know you are doing it right if you find that the
relationship that you have to your own thoughts is no different than the
relationship you have to exterior objects. That is, the relationship you have
to the thoughts that are arising “in you” right now is the same as the
relationship you have to that building, that car going by, that tree, those
stars, or that computer screen. When you Witness thoughts and you Witness
that building, the Witness is aware of each of them in a perfectly equal way
—one of them is not “more you” than the other. The inner thoughts arising
now are not “more you” than the building or the computer screen—they are
both equally objects arising in front of your Witnessing Awareness, and you
are neither of them. This Witnessing Awareness itself is neither inside nor
outside, but equally Witnesses both inside and outside. Thus, be aware of
inside, then be aware of outside—now equally Witness them both,
identified with neither.
In other words, I am not a separate-self sense locked inside my head and
existing in a close relationship only with the thoughts, ideas, and images
that arise there—and that I often think of as my “self.” All of those thoughts

and images are simply objects that have pretended to be real subjects, and
with which I have therefore inadvertently identified. But I now realize that I
can see all of them, so they are actually objects, and I have reverted to the
real Subject, the pure Mirror-Mind Witness of them. When I look at any
interior thoughts or feelings and when I look at any exterior things or
events, the Witness has exactly the same relationship to both of them—they
are all equally objects of my Witnessing Awareness—no more, no less. And
again, this Witness is neither inside nor outside—it is equally aware of both
of them, while itself remaining simply Free, which generates a blissful or
joyous release from everything. I check this by going back and forth, back
and forth, looking at objects that are “inside” and looking at objects that are
“outside,” making sure that they are all equally objects of my pure
Witnessing—equal reflections of my Mirror-Mind Self.
ONE TASTE, ROUND 2
If you are specifically doing a turiya recognition, then simply continue
practicing that Witnessing state, resting in the Standing Present. If you
decide to move on to a turiyatita or One Taste recognition, you will want to
see the Totality of the Painting not as arising in front of you or outside of
you but rather as arising within you, within your Awareness, within your
Being—“on this side of your face, where your head used to be.” Then you
are not Witnessing the Painting; you ARE the Painting. The Totality of it is
fully arising within you as this single, unified present moment—it’s not
outside of you as an object but within you as Awareness. You are not in this
room; this room is in you—this room is arising within your Awareness. And
this means also that you are no longer Subject (even with a capital S). You
are not Subject or Self; you are simple Suchness, a One Taste unified
experience. The sky has turned into a big blue pancake and has fallen right
on your head and is now totally one with you, sitting right where your head
used to be. It’s “within” you, and you fully include both “within” and
“without” as One Taste.

This One-Taste Awareness will help stop the acquired habit of standing
back from each sensation and hovering over it and instead will recognize
the deeper background that enfolds each sensation, so that the world doesn’t
idiotically exist twice—once as given, and then again as reflected in my
awareness. It is given only once, and I do not see that object; I am that
object (it is arising right here, right where my head used to be). To repeat
how the Zen master put it, “When I heard the sound of the bell ringing,
there was no bell and no I, just the ringing.”
One of the easiest ways to begin this One Taste recognition is by doing
the headless exercise. I’ll run through this one more time, quickly, but with
some variation, so please don’t mind the repetition.
You start by noticing that, typically, you feel like you are “in here,” on
this side of your face, and the rest of the world is arising “out there,” on the
other side of your face. Now there is a certain relative truth to that—there is
a relative self and a relative other. But underlying both of them is a
background, unified state that is not split in two but is unitary (or more
technically, a nonduality). When you are aware only of the split between
subject and object, that is the self-contraction, the restricted, broken, and
narrowed entity that is dualistic attention; it is the basic form of Primordial
Avoidance itself (because you have to contract against the unity of the
present moment in order to split it into an “inside” versus an “outside”—it
never starts that way).
So instead of contracting, take some object in your awareness—maybe
that tree, or that car, or the clouds out there—and while looking at it, get the
feel of “this side” of your face, the immediate feel of the “in-here-ness” that
seems to be the location of the sense of yourself as a watcher or looker (we
often feel that our “self” exists in our heads, looking through our eyes at the
world out there). Steadily feel that “in-here-ness” space for a minute or so.
Then, instead focus on the feeling of the objective tree “out there.” Feel the
sensation of “treeness out there.” Next go back and forth a few times
between the sensations of “self-in-here” and “tree-out-there,” and then
suddenly, simply identify those two sensations (that is, recognize that in the
immediateness of present Awareness, there is only one sensation).

Recognize that the “out there” object is actually arising as one with the
subject “in here,” right where your head used to be. Or, recognize that the
object and the subject are one single experience, arising right here, right
where you thought your head was. Get into this headless state, and then
notice that the entire world “out there” is actually arising “in here,” right
where your head used to be—so that both “in here” and “out there”
disappear into “just this,” the single, presently arising experience of One
Taste.
To help you do this, notice the awareness of what seems to be the
distance between those two sensations: there is the feeling of “in here,” and
then—apparently separated from that by a long distance—there is the
feeling of the tree “out there.” Simply allow that feeling of distance to
disappear. Allow the distance itself to collapse, so that the tree literally is
sitting directly on your shoulders, right here, right where your head used to
be, with no distance or separation whatsoever between “tree” and “in here.”
The tree feels like it is arising “in here,” on this side of your face, right
where your head used to be. Then simply stay with that oneness, moment to
moment, in the Standing Present.
To the extent that there is still a remnant of the feeling of there being an
“in here” space, a sense of “on this side of your face,” the tree will be
arising in that space—that is, the tree will exist “in here,” on this side of my
face. The tree is arising within you. Fairly quickly, that sense of there being
a separate “in here” will evaporate and what you feel as “you” (that “self in
here”) will literally and immediately expand to the entire world of “out
there”—these two will no longer be separated. All of a sudden, not just the
tree but the entire world that you are looking at is arising within you. There
is no sense of “within,” nor is there a separate-self feeling of a set-apart
“you”; there is only the entire world arising moment to moment, and YOU
ARE THAT. You are ALL of it. The whole universe is arising within you
(and there is no “within” or “you”). In other words, you are one with the
entire Painting of All That Is.
So, when the space out there is seen to be arising right here, right where
your head used to be, and when those two things become one sensation, one

single, present experience (the big blue pancake has fallen on your head),
then the space “in here” explodes into a vast Spaciousness that includes or
embraces the total space out there. It expands to embrace All Space, and
what used to be your “self in here” expands to include a vast headless
Spaciousness of All That Is. The entire sky is arising where your head used
to be, and your head is now where the entire sky used to be. The world does
not arise twice—once as “out there” and then a second time when you “in
here” look at it, so that you feel that there are two worlds. Rather it arises
just once in a single experience, and you are That—a single Suchness,
Thusness, or Isness that embraces Everything that is arising. There’s no
longer a “self in here,” because “in here” and “out there” are now directly a
headless One Taste. If you are anything, you are All Space; you are All of
This, with no inside and no outside, just This—a One-Taste Suchness.
With that, there is no subject versus an object, there is only the presently
arising singleness or Suchness of experience, and you embrace absolutely
all of it. You do not feel this world; you-are-the-world feeling itself. The
world is arising not twice but as One Taste.
One of the easiest ways to do this, if you are reading this in a book or on
a computer screen, is to practice the headless state as you are reading this.
As you are reading this, recognize that you don’t really have a head; rather,
the reading material is arising right here, right where you thought your head
was, and you are actually one with the material itself, it is actually arising in
a single space, and you are fully one with that space (this is truly a very real
One Taste experience). Then practice reading in that unified headless One
Taste state. This might take a little bit of time and practice, we’re so used to
reading with our head. But stay with it, it’s really an amazing experience.
This sense of Oneness is also quite easy to realize while listening to
music. Try it. Start by playing one of your favorite songs, let’s say, on the
radio. Close your eyes. Notice that the music initially sounds like it’s
coming from “out there,” from the radio. Then notice that you can also hear
the music as if it’s coming from “in here,” from deep within your own
brain. Then think about everything you have learned about the nature of the
Oneness experience, and apply that directly to the sound of the music. Start

by dissolving the distance between the music and you—simply dissolve
into the stream of music itself, erasing any difference between you and the
sound of the music, and hear it as if it were just one single stream of allpervading music, pushing out any sense of your being a separate self, and
uniting fully with the stream itself. There are not two experiences—the
sound of music coming from the radio and your listening to it. There is just
one experience—you are the music in a single stream. (This will be the
same experience as you have when you do the “headless” practice.) To
paraphrase the Zen master, “When I heard the sound of the music coming
from the radio, there was no radio and no I, just the music.”
In this state, do a quick experiment. Allow this One-Taste Awareness to
expand to infinity. That is, let your Awareness get bigger and bigger,
starting from where you are and expanding to include the entire planet, then
the entire solar system (the sun, moon, and planets), then the entire galaxy,
with billions and billions of stars, and then expand again to include all
galaxies, the totality of galaxies. Your Awareness is expanding past all of
them and embracing and enfolding all of them as it does so. Then allow
your Awareness to completely expand to infinity itself—let it expand to the
point where there is an endless beyond, yet your Awareness is aware of
even that endless beyond—that utter infinity. Simply throw your Awareness
out as far as it can possibly go, to the utter ends of the universe.
Notice, at some point, that the outward movement of Awareness will
stop, will come to some sort of an end that seems to be infinity. Why does it
stop? How does it even know to stop? How does it know that it is at
infinity? And the answer is that it was already there. You know when
infinity has been reached because your Awareness is always already
infinite. It was already at infinity, and thus it simply recognized itself.
That is just a simple visualization technique that might have clicked, but
it also represents a genuine reality—which is that your own primordial
Awareness, your own pure Consciousness, is always already absolutely
infinite and eternal. There is simply nothing outside of it. This is your
Supreme Identity, and that infinite, eternal Reality that your Awareness is is
one with Spirit itself. This is ultimate, nondual Unity consciousness, your

Original Face, Who and What you really are, always and already. When you
practice a simple exercise like the “headless” state, you are plugging into
this radical Big Mind, which not only is the unity between you and the tree
or you and the music but also contains within itself the entire universe.
Supernovas explode inside your mind; the stars are the sparkling neurons of
your brain; lovers everywhere arise within your heart; sentient beings all
over the world are in your pure consciousness; your own sense of Being is
the limit of infinity itself, which is your own Supreme Identity. At that
point, it feels like absolutely everything is arising within your own Being.
The entire universe is arising within you, and then “within” itself simply
fades away and there is only All This, spontaneously arising, selfmanifesting, and self-liberating, and you directly touch and easily embrace
each and every single thing that is arising in this and in all of the worlds,
now and literally forever (being ever-present at every present). And the
entire universe could disappear entirely, and you would still be you, the
pure Essence of Being, and nothing ever happens.
This is a colossal Wholeness. Being eternal, a totally timeless and everpresent Now, 100 percent of this eternity is fully present at every point of
time. Being infinite, or a totally spaceless Here, 100 percent of this infinity
is fully present at every point of space. BE HERE NOW is an old cliché,
but it points directly to the fact that you are an infinity underlying and
embracing all finite space (“Infinity is in love with the productions of
space”), and an eternity underlying and embracing all temporal time
(“Eternity is in love with the productions of time”). This is the stunning
Wholeness of your Supreme Identity.
And yet, indeed, there is more.
OceanofPDF.com

17
The Feelings of Enlightenment
The central point of this chapter is that although Enlightenment has no
subject or object, no feeler or thing felt, it does have feelings, Nondual
feelings. In other words, there is not just Enlightened Awareness, there is
also Enlightened Feeling. We are going to explore those feelings of
Enlightenment. I’ll mostly use Bliss and Love, but any roughly
synonymous terms will do (for example, Joy and Compassion, or Happiness
and Care). Not only can you follow your own awareness to Enlightenment,
you can also follow your own feelings to Enlightenment.
A BIG BLISS BEYOND BLISS
The release from being confined and suffocated in an isolated, finite,
contracted self will open—starting with a pure Witnessing Awareness—to
Bliss (ananda), all-pervading Joy, deep Happiness, or simply a profound,
seemingly infinite well-being. But notice that this is not a bliss that is
merely a separate emotion that comes and goes, that has a beginning,
middle, and end, and that has an opposite like anguish or misery. This bliss
has no opposite but is radically all-embracing. It’s not a relative, temporal
state but an aspect of an ultimate state, a timeless or ever-present state. It is
a capital B Bliss that is beyond small bliss and its opposite, misery, and it
underlies and persists through both ordinary bliss and misery as they come
and go. This big Bliss is simply the feeling aspect of the radical Freedom of

the Witness, and like the Witness, it does not come and go but is literally
ever-present.
This Bliss beyond bliss and misery is an ever-present quality of the
Freedom of the transcendental aspect of primordial Awareness (it’s what the
radical Freedom of the cognizing Witness feels like), and like the Witness,
it is itself ever-present, Unborn, Undying. To put it simply, this Bliss is the
Feeling of the Freedom of the Witness. Just as the Freedom of the Witness is
fully present as it unreservedly and freely Witnesses everything that is
arising, this Bliss is equally and fully present in each and every experience
as what that Freedom feels like. It’s the ecstatic release from all narrowed,
broken, and suffering small selves, and it is as ever-constant and everpresent as primordial Awareness itself, never going, never coming, never
arriving, never leaving, ecstatically thrilled with every experience that
arises anywhere in the universe, since all of them are always already
primordially Free. (This involves both a “Freedom from” all manifest
constraints and a “Freedom to” Witness anything.)
Freedom—especially in the sense of freedom from something that is
constraining—always generates some sort of joy or happiness. When it’s
Freedom from the entire manifest world, this happiness can be intense
indeed, and that is simply Big Bliss by whatever name.
As we stand genuinely Free as the Witness, neither inside nor outside,
and allow ourselves to feel into that radical Freedom, we will start to notice
—not as an object but as an atmosphere—a profound Feeling of what the
Traditions call “Ananda”—that is, Bliss or Joy—the sense of an ecstatic
release from this painful realm of tortured and self-contracted fragments. As
I am aware of the totality of everything that is arising right now, I realize
that I am absolutely Free of all of it. I am neti, neti—I am not identified
with any of it, not attached to any of it, not bound to any of it. I have let go
of it all; I am utterly Free of any pain, suffering, or torment that it can
cause. I am instead this Infinite Space of total Freedom, and simply feeling
that vast Spaciousness and its utter Freedom is an enormous Release, an
ecstatic Letting Go, a cognitive Blissfulness.

Realizing this ecstatic or joyful Release means that I understand
profoundly that even if, say, pain arises, it arises in an Awareness that no
longer is pain but rather simply Witnesses pain. Pain is no longer me; it is
mine. I have disidentified with it; it is a subject that I have made object.
And when all subjects have been made object, so that all that remains
cannot be made object at all, what remains is Absolute Subjectivity—and as
such I am bathed in a radical Freedom that drenches me in a genuine
Release and Blissful Joy. So when I am resting in the Witness, I am resting
in Freedom, the Feeling of which is Bliss—simply because all freedom
elicits joy.
People who have experienced this say that it is a “bliss that can be felt
in every cell of the body.” Maslow beautifully described this as follows:
“One can learn to see in this Unitive way almost at will. It then becomes a
witnessing, an appreciating, what one might call a serene, cognitive
blissfulness.”[1] I really like the phrase “a witnessing, a serene, cognitive
blissfulness”—that’s exactly it, the serene Bliss of the cognizing Witness. It
so nicely puts together the two basic ingredients—the cognizing Witness
and its blissfulness. And remember, this came from Maslow’s empirical
research, so we know that this “cognitive blissfulness” has a grounding in
empirical studies.
When I rest as the empty, open Witness—the vast Spaciousness of not
this, not that—because there is Nothing left to bind me, and because all
Freedom is inherently Joyous/Blissful, I am resting in a boundless expanse
of Blissful Freedom. So when I am aware of that tree, that tree is directly
arising in the vast, open Spaciousness that is cognitive Blissfulness itself.
Bliss sees the tree. Bliss feels the dog.
Bliss thinks this thought. Bliss sees that car. That’s the texture of the
Witness—a radical Freedom that elicits deep Joy, an infinite Letting Go and
Release, a real cognitive Blissfulness.
In the East, it is common to define ultimate Reality as satchitananda,
which means Being (sat), Consciousness (chit), and Bliss (ananda). Both
Being and Consciousness are purely Empty (or Unqualifiable), and thus this
Emptiness generates a very subtle feeling, which is the feeling of Ananda or

an ever-present Bliss. Since this involves a feeling of Infinity and Eternity,
it is a feeling that is different from all relative feelings. It is a feeling that is
indeed infinite and eternal, a serene cognitive Blissfulness, ever present,
and thus always present.
If I’m still identified with some object or some small-self sensation, I
will be bound by that limited identity to the dukkha, suffering, or original
sin inherent in this manifest world. Thus any positive feeling (such as bliss)
will be touched to some degree by that suffering, and thus will never be a
pure positive feeling (such as Bliss). But if I am truly and deeply a pure I
AMness, and I am fully not this, not that—not any of this or any of that—
then the ecstatic Release from the prison of samsara rockets through my
Being and a constant background thrill of a genuinely inclusive Big Bliss
saturates my state. This Big Bliss is not the small exclusive bliss that exists
in time, that comes, stays a bit, and goes, and that alternates with opposites
like misery, anguish, and torment, but is an ever-present Bliss that is the
very texture of the ever-present Witness. Wherever the infinite and eternal
Witness is present, the texture is Blissful. If you are truly Witnessing a
torment, pain, terror, or anguish, then not only will it not terrorize you but at
its core there will be a constant background Big Bliss, a deep Joy that is the
very lining of the Witness itself. To the extent that you recognize the
Witness is ever-present, as that Witness, simply look around a bit and you
will find—not as an object but as an all-embracing atmosphere—a feeling
of deep Freedom, joyous Release, profound Happiness. So it is Bliss that is
seeing (or cognizing) that tree—a Blissful Witness is witnessing the World.
That is the true texture of an I AMness that has been present for all eternity
—Satchitananda—Being-Consciousness-Bliss.
THE FULLNESS OF A BIG LOVE BEYOND LOVE
If the Feeling of the radical Freedom of the Witness is a deep, joyful Bliss,
the Feeling of the radical Fullness of One Taste is an all-embracing Love.
This capital L Love is beyond ordinary love and its opposite hate; it has no
opposite at all but is totally all-embracing. Being ever-present, it is fully

present with both small love and its opposite hate. This Big Love underlies
and embraces, or truly Loves and accepts, both small love and small hate,
and all the other temporal emotions as well. There is an ongoing
background feeling of pure Love, which reaches out and enfolds everything
in its all-pervading Embrace. While all the other feelings and emotions,
whether negative or positive, are running through the passing present with
their own dramatic ups and downs, this ever-present Loving background
remains steadily the case in the Standing Present. It’s how the Oneness of
the universe actually feels. In short, this Love is the Feeling of the Fullness
of One Taste. When you are one with the entire World in an ongoing
Embrace and Wholeness, you Feel, as a constant background, a total Love,
capital L. Again, this is an infinite feeling—you are not feeling this because
you are loving a particular person or thing but because you are loving
everything.
This Big Love of the All (as the All), with its unifying embrace of
everything that is, is a moving beyond all primordial avoidance to a pure
undivided or nondual Wholeness. That Wholeness is felt as a pure Love,
straight from your own Heart, in a radiant Unity or pure Oneness with
absolutely everything that is arising, and everything that is arising is always
doing so in a boundless Fullness, an unbroken Wholeness, a genuine
expression of pure Love in One Taste.
Big Bliss and Big Love are inherent parts of the Wholeness of Waking
Up to infinity and eternity. Even when you are looking at something as
simple as a tree, the very perception of that tree elicits and reminds you of
an ever-present Bliss that can never come or go, that can never get lost or
cease to be, but is the inside lining of every experience because you are
always Free. When you plug into the feeling tone of the ever-present
Freedom of the Witness and realize it as an ongoing background Bliss or
deep Happiness, you’ll also see that this Big Bliss has been ever-present as
well, and previously it bubbled up as the basic little bit of happiness that
allowed you to endure the miseries of this world, a small glimmer of what is
really your own deepest Nature. But it can be realized directly and fully,
and then its ever-present nature becomes as obvious as the Witness itself, “a

serene, cognitive Blissfulness.” In the deepest part of you, you are always
Free and will always be free, joyously released and wondrously liberated.
This Freedom shoots through every cell of your body as a deep, abiding,
Blissful Joy, because indeed you are always Free from everything, which is
why nothing ever happens.
In the same perception of the tree, as you push through to its core
Oneness, there emerges from your Heart an unlimited and all-embracing
Love, flooding with infinite care, kindness, and radical embrace not only
this tree but of all beings without exception, all of whom are textures of
your own deepest Suchness or One Taste. This in indeed making room for
everything. If you get into a “headless” state, in which the entire universe,
as an infinite Wholeness or Fullness, is arising within you, the very Feeling
of that Fullness is this vast, ever-present, background Love. So, just as Bliss
is the Feeling of the Freedom of the Witness, this Love is the Feeling of the
Fullness of One Taste. The more that you recognize that this One Taste is
always already the case, the more that you also open yourself, if you look
carefully, to recognizing that this infinite Love is an ever-present Feeling as
well, the ground of all the lesser feelings that might parade by in time. It
fully Loves and Embraces each and every one of them as textures of the
Fullness of a radically headless One Taste—Present moment to Present
moment to Present moment. So beneath all the conventional judgments
about experiences that may indeed be relatively true or false, good or bad,
noble or disgusting, right or wrong, there is finally nothing in the entire
world that you don’t deeply and fully Love.
This Bliss-and-Love, which is the feeling tone of ultimate Freedomand-Fullness, is the very lining of every perception, impulse, sensation, and
experience that you will ever have. As you practice both allowing a Witness
Awareness to be recognized and noticing the ever-present nature of your
own headless One Taste, begin allowing this deep Happiness, or core Bliss,
and this pure Love, or total Embrace, to arise as well. Think of it as a
Loving Bliss or a Blissful Love—it doesn’t really matter—both of them are
radically radiating from the deepest center of the timeless Now. Again, this
Blissful Love is not an individual feeling or emotion that comes into being,

stays a while, and goes, but is the deep, core background feeling, constantly
occurring, truly ever-present, moment to moment, under (or with or as) each
and every surface feeling that comes and goes. It is the Blissful Loving
deep sensation of the Standing Present as it exists under each and every
thing and emotion that moves through the passing present. It is an
unshakable, unstoppable, ongoing, background feeling that radiates as a
spacious Superabundance flowing out of this timeless Now and embracing
the entire world.
This Blissful Love is the very core of the Standing Present because this
capital B Bliss and this capital L Love—this Loving Bliss and this Blissful
Love—are not typical emotions like love-versus-hate or bliss-versusmisery, which exist in time, and come, last a bit, and then fade, but rather
they are the ever-present qualities that come with the ever-present Freedom
of the transcendental Witness and the ever-present Fullness of nondual One
Taste.
So you will begin to feel, under all your other feelings, if they remain at
all, a constant background sense of a whole-bodied Blissful Loving
shooting through your entire body from head to toe and smoothly radiating
from your own Depths and embracing the world at large. And to the extent
that you feel anything, from now on, it is indeed some variation of the basic
big Bliss and deep Love of the Witness and One Taste. And both of them
are occurring together, because One Taste and its Love transcends and
includes the Witness and its Bliss. (For those of you who were impressed
with Adi Da, remember that he chose as his spiritual name the words he felt
best represented ultimate Reality: Love-Ananda, or Love-Bliss.)
The more that a recognition of the Witness tends to give way to One
Taste and stops arising as its own separate reality, the more its Bliss will
tend to merge with an all-embracing Love. The Blissful or deeply Happy
feelings of the Witness arise precisely because the Witness is radically Free
from the entire manifest world. But with the emergence of One Taste, a
complete Freedom from the entire world has given way to a radical Oneness
with the entire world. The move from turiya to turiyatita is in one sense a
sharp break—Zen says that “the bottom of the bucket breaks.” The sense of

there being a bottom to the bucket—that is, a solid bottom to Awareness,
any sense of there being a subject or witness in awareness at all, any sense
of there being a solid self in here that looks at the world out there—acts as
the primary dualism that prevents the truer Unity or Nonduality of One
Taste. When the Witness disappears as its own set-apart Reality and thus
becomes one with the entire world through the unity of the “headless”
condition, it returns to being the inherent aspect of a pure nondual
Awareness that it always is, which is the cognizing or knowing dimension
of a Nonduality or One Taste.
Likewise, when that happens, the Blissful feeling of the Witness tucks
itself into the Loving Fullness of One Taste—hence the Loving Bliss or the
Blissful Love of any ongoing moment-to-moment Reality. The Blissful
Freedom of being Free from everything does indeed merge into a Loving
Oneness with everything. The sense the Witness has of standing back from
the world, resting in its own blissful freedom, and witnessing the entire
world arising “in front” of it, merges into a sense of a radical loving
Oneness with the entire world, which is now arising fully, not in front of it
but within it. Especially if you get into a headless unity state, there is still
the sense of a Witnessing Awareness, but it’s fully one with the entire world
that is arising within its own unitary, headless Awareness. There’s no longer
a Subject or even an Absolute Subjectivity standing back from everything;
there’s simply a nondual Suchness or Thusness, with subject and object
being fully one, so that the world “out there” is arising fully within your
own Awareness (right where your head used to be). There is still a sense of
Blissful Freedom, but that Blissful Freedom reaches out to, and embraces,
with a huge Loving kiss, every single thing and event that is arising
anywhere. Both within and without give way to a single headless One Taste
—and that is a Loving Bliss and a Blissful Love, Freedom embracing
Fullness with all of its being. You’re no longer free from the world, you’re
headlessly one with the world, whatever that world might be—gross, subtle,
causal, turiya, turiyatita, or all of them.
If you have trouble getting the Witness together with One Taste—that is,
practicing Bliss and Love simultaneously—I will provide some instructions

on how to do that in chapter 19, in the section “The Ultimate Unity of Bliss
and Love.” In that section, you will learn to get into a headless unity state
first—in which all the objects “out there” are directly felt to be arising “in
here,” right where your head used to be, so much so that “out there” and “in
here” are directly felt to be one, singular, a unitary experience of “just this.”
Then take exactly the place where you feel the tree out there is actually
sitting “in here,” right where your head used to be, and identify that with an
all-embracing feeling of love, so that the entire world is felt to be arising
within that headless, unitary Love. Simply feel your headless condition to
be fully one with an all-encompassing Loving awareness. Feel this unity of
the headless state to be an all-embracing Love for everything that you are
aware of. In this nondual, unified, headless state, your Witness will now
have collapsed into, and become one with, this One Taste condition, so that
the Bliss of the Witness has now also become one with this headless Love.
Thus, as you look out at the world, do so through a Blissfully Loving
awareness. In other words, you start to feel the Love generated by your own
headless One Taste to be fully suffused with Bliss—a truly Blissful Loving
headless One Taste.
Now notice that the feelings of Bliss and Love are typically present in
the act of sex (at least as finite, relative, conventional bliss and love, but
often they explode into their ultimate forms). Sexual Tantra uses those
feelings of conventional bliss and love as pointers to an ultimate Bliss and
Love. That’s the topic that’s up next. We’ll see that the feelings that usually
occur with sex—namely, a blissful ecstasy and a loving oneness (that is, a
finite sexual bliss and love)—can be used to recognize, remember, and
enhance the ever-present Bliss and Love of your own True Nature. Sex is
not a sin against Spirit but a direct road to Spirit. And this will very likely
change your relationship to sexuality forever.
OceanofPDF.com

18
Integral Sexual Tantra
We now move to a new area that is fascinating and definitely important—
namely, Tantra. Tantra involves a series of very effective practices and
pointing-out instructions that involve uniting sex and Spirit, and thus evoke
an underlying and ever-present Nonduality or ultimate Reality. And we will
find that this is directly connected to Big Bliss and Big Love.
There are dozens of different schools of Tantra, and they vary
enormously. But it is generally agreed that the very highest schools of
Tantra (such as those manifested in the upper reaches of Kashmir Shaivism
and Vajrayana, or Tibetan Buddhism) are perhaps the most sophisticated
and profound of all of the world’s Great Wisdom Traditions. Tantra came to
fruition from the eighth to the eleventh centuries in India, especially at the
amazing Buddhist Nalanda University, but Tantra itself is not confined to
Buddhism. In fact, variations on the major themes of Tantra can be found to
some degree in most of the Great Traditions. Tantra was a profound
culmination of the defining drive of evolution itself, namely, to transcend
and include.
So let’s look very briefly at the history of Tantra to see exactly what is
involved. Since there are Buddhist forms of Tantra and I have already gone
over the history of Buddhism, I will be repeating some things that I have
already covered. But this is important in order to see exactly how—and why
—Tantra evolved in the first place, and why it transcended and included
most previous religions.

Early Buddhism began as virtually all the great Axial-period (or great
Mythic-Age) religions around the globe did: with a belief that the entire
manifest world is rotten. It is samsara, inherently fallen, drenched in
original sin, or what early Buddhism called dukkha, suffering. The manifest
world of samsara is inherently marked by suffering. Wherever there is a
manifest world and a sentient being, that sentient being is suffering, and
there’s nothing whatsoever that can be done about it. However, one can get
out of, or off of, the wheel of samsara altogether. In order to do this, one
takes up a specific type of meditation, which is aimed at an exhaustive
witnessing of the contents of consciousness, until one directly discovers the
source of consciousness or awareness itself—that is, one discovers a pure
nirvana, discovers the pure empty Witness, which itself is free of all objects,
free of all manifestation, free of all samsara. The discovery of this purely
formless, contentless, empty awareness is the discovery of nirvana, which
is a timeless state radically free of all suffering, all ego, all desire, and all
pain, because it is free of manifestation itself in any form. (It’s somewhat
like the deep dreamless state.)
So the aim of early Buddhism was straightforward: samsara (or the
manifest universe itself) is inherently suffering; therefore completely drop
any and all activities having anything to do with samsara, take up
meditation, and discover the pure witnessing Awareness. Because pure
Awareness is radically free of all objects and all manifestation, residing in
the emptiness of that state is a pure liberation—the pure Freedom of the
Witness—free from all self, all desire, and all suffering. Having realized the
Witness as an ever-present part of awareness, one takes up permanent
residence in its ever present Freedom. And that permanent residence in
Freedom from all samsara, Buddha called nirvana.
And by the way, as I previously pointed out, nirvana is a very real, very
profound state of consciousness—a state of pure unmanifest absorption,
where one rests so completely in pure empty consciousness that nothing
whatsoever even arises in awareness. This state is also called nirvikalpa
samadhi, and its culmination is the state of nirodh (pure cessation or
extinction)—that is, nirvana—and it’s so real that if you are in it, you

literally cannot feel any pain at all. No pain whatsoever, no matter how
intense. If this seems hard to believe, remember the protesting Vietnamese
Buddhist monk who sat placidly in meditation while he immolated himself.
Nirvana is very, very real; and it does exactly what it claims to do—it
radically frees you from all pain and suffering.
But is this state of nirvana the highest state? As we saw earlier, the
Buddhist genius Nagarjuna answered this question by saying, “No.” It is not
the highest. It is the highest state in dualistic realms, but they are ultimately
laced with illusion. Nirvana is split from samsara; Emptiness is split from
Form; Heaven is split from earth. This clearly is not a holistic, unified,
nondual state—it’s a fragmented, broken, dualistic state. And a broken state
cannot give you a real and full Enlightenment.
Looking back on it, we can see that what Nagarjuna was aiming for was
not nirvana (as early Buddhism was) but shunyata, a state of pure
Nonduality and One Taste, which transcended and included the lesser state
of nirvana and did not split nirvana from samsara but unified them in a
deeper, nondual Wholeness (although “Wholeness,” like all terms, was,
strictly speaking, inapplicable). Nagarjuna had himself discovered this
deeper state, and so he knew the nirvana state was actually limited and less
than ultimate. So Nagarjuna ushered in the Nonduality revolution, and—as
a yet greater evolutionary achievement—this state did indeed transcend and
include the lesser states of samsara and nirvana in a greater state of nondual
Wholeness. There was no longer a nirvana split from samsara but a deeper,
nondual Wholeness that fully included both; and there was no longer the
world of Emptiness split from Form but a deeper Wholeness that fully
included both. The Heart Sutra would soon summarize this as “That which
is Emptiness is not other than Form; that which is Form is not other than
Emptiness.” In other words, that which is nirvana is not other than samsara,
and that which is samsara is not other than nirvana. Moreover, all the
opposites that had been taken to reflect a supposed duality of nirvana versus
samsara—for example, infinite versus finite, good versus evil, eternal
versus temporal, spirit versus matter, and spirit versus sex—were now
unified as well (that is, taken to be nondual, or not-two).

This changed absolutely everything. All of a sudden, the things that
were supposed to prevent Enlightenment were unified with (or nondual
with) the things that caused it. The very things you had taken to be sinful
were in fact one with Awakening; the very things that you had been
avoiding were things you were supposed to embrace. All of a sudden,
wherever these nondual insights emerged, there was a profound shift in
religious practices from ones characterized by puritanical renunciation to
ones characterized by transformation. (And most religions at the time were
indeed puritanical. As I pointed out above, most schools of Deity
mysticism, Formless mysticism, and I-AMness mysticism recommended
celibacy and other various forms of puritanical renunciation.)
In early Buddhism, for example, if you had a defiled emotion like anger,
you would apply all sorts of antidotes to it, trying to suppress or eliminate
it. In Tantra, on the other hand, if anger arose, you simply embraced it with
a nondual One-Taste Awareness, and it immediately transformed from the
defiled emotion of anger to the transcendental wisdom of clarity. It did so
because nirvana and samsara are not two—defiled anger and awakened
clarity are not irreconcilable opposites fated to fight forever, but they are
two aspects of the same underlying reality. Enlightenment comes not from
chasing one of those opposites and denying the other—running after half of
the universe and trying to get rid of the other half—but by transcending and
embracing them both. Instead of a list of hundreds of desires, impulses,
images, and ideas that a person was supposed to suppress and puritanically
renounce, the primary rule of Tantra is very simple: Bring everything onto
the path. This is a pure, all-embracing turiyatita practice, and it shook the
spiritual world to its very foundations.
Thus, where the goal of the early Buddhist path was to be an arhat—a
“solitary realizer” who had fully renounced samsara and escaped
completely into nirodh, or pure nirvana, totally oblivious to the manifest
world and all of its suffering beings, having vanished forever into the pure
extinction of nirvana—the goal of the new Nondual path was to become a
bodhisattva, whose primary vow was a promise NOT to disappear into
nirodh or nirvana, never to appear in samsara again. The bodhisattva vowed

to see the unity of nirvana and samsara and thus remain in the world of
samsara helping all other beings to see that the reality of samsara was itself
not-two with nirvana—in other words, a vow to help all sentient beings
Awaken.
The bodhisattva vow is often phrased as “I vow to recognize
Enlightenment as quickly as possible so I can help all sentient beings
realize Enlightenment as well.” It was, at its core, a promise to stay not in
nirvikalpa samadhi, nirodh, or pure unmanifest cessation but in sahaja
samadhi, or nondual unified One Taste. It was a promise not to get into a
meditation that was so oblivious to the manifest world that you could watch
the planet decline ecologically and not be concerned (it’s just samsara) but
to get off your mat and help the planet and those people around you who are
in such suffering. And you help them the most by helping them Awaken—
and awaken not to nirvana but to the unity or nonduality of nirvana and
samsara.
You can probably see how spirituality would begin to change
profoundly as a result: from finding a way to get out of this world to finding
a way to be fully in it, from finding a Heaven not of this Earth to finding a
Heaven on Earth, and from seeking a Spirit that repressed the flesh to a
Spirit that fully inhabited the flesh. This, truly, was absolutely
revolutionary.
We have already seen that many Indian tantric initiations included what
were called “the five M’s,” which were five items that Brahmanical
Hinduism had pronounced sinful and were to be totally renounced and
avoided, for example, alcohol, red meat, parched grain, and especially real
sex. (The names of these things in Sanskrit all begin with an m, hence “the
five M’s.”) But these things were not avoided in tantric initiations; in fact,
all of them were intentionally and deliberately included and practiced in the
initiation—and that definitely meant sex too. You could hardly make the
point any clearer: the fundamental belief for any truly Nondual realization
is that there is only Spirit; there is only God; there is only the One without a
second in all directions, and thus the One is not something hard to find but
impossible to avoid—there is nothing that is not Spirit. And thus everything

that you thought prevented Spirit is actually an ornament and a direct
manifestation of Spirit itself; it is not to be suppressed or denied but
embraced and celebrated—“Bring everything onto the path, because there is
only Spirit.”
And so, in this regard, Tantra became very well known for the practice
of sex as a means of spiritual realization, although that constitutes only a
small part of its teachings. But the sexual practices and their direct relation
to Spirit that Tantra discovered were indeed revolutionary. These practices
included things like the awakening of kundalini, a subtle sexual energy said
to be coiled like a snake at the bottom of the spine, which when awakened,
travels up the spine and unites with an infinite Light, Consciousness, and
Spirit lying within, above, and beyond the head. It helps to remember that
these discoveries were a direct result of Nagarjuna’s original identification
of nirvana and samsara, so that the things that most religions had taken to
be diametrically opposed—such as infinite and finite, Heaven and Earth,
Spirit and sexuality—were seen to be, in fact, two sides of the same coin of
ultimate Reality. Thus you could most certainly use one to realize the other
—for example, sex does not prevent Spirit but is a direct path to Spirit. The
truth of Tantra stems directly from the truth of Nonduality—Spirit and
flesh, infinite and finite, Emptiness and Form, nirvana and samsara are
indeed not-two.
Tantra got the reputation, in many places, of being the super fast and
super easy (and super fun) path to Enlightenment. The typical path to
Enlightenment involved cognition, awareness, and intense willpower. In
Zen, for example, you might concentrate on a specific koan, like “Mu,” and
you would use your willpower to concentrate on that day in and day out. If
you do that nonstop for three or four years, at some point you will likely get
a satori or realization of Oneness or Nonduality. For some people, with
Tantra, you essentially engage in sex and let it take its course. Which do
you think is easier? The most fun? (Actually some of the tantric
visualization practices are as complex and detailed as you can possibly
imagine, but the point is, the ultimate driver is blissful sexual energy or

kundalini, not just willpower, and this indeed provides a powerfully easy
booster.)
A BRIEF NOTE ABOUT TANTRA
I want to emphasize the special way that I am using the term Tantra.
Although tantric essentials are basically similar the world over, there are
some important differences. I’ve mentioned the brilliant Buddhist
Nagarjuna several times. Well, Shankara is to Vedantic Hinduism what
Nagarjuna is to Mahayana Buddhism—namely, a genius of Nonduality, a
supreme master of the Nondual in theory and practice.
Nagarjuna was not a tantric practitioner himself—he was a master of
Nonduality. So when Tantra—which is Nondual—was first developed in
Buddhism, it often drew on Nagarjuna’s Nondual insights. The same with
Shankara. He himself was not a tantric practitioner—he was a master of
Nonduality—and thus when Hindu Tantra developed, it was similar to some
of Shankara’s brilliant insights. I rely on both of them, as does the Integral
view itself.
But I am presenting Integral sexual Tantra, so it is an integrated mixture
of the Integral Framework and all sorts of tantric theory from around the
world. This is not Buddhist Tantra per se, or Hindu Tantra, or Taoist, or
Christian. It does, however, draw on an integrated mixture of the best
principles from the various tantric schools worldwide (including work from
Nagarjuna, Shankara, Chuang Tzu [Taoism], and many other masters).
So keep that in mind, especially if you’re an expert on any particular
Tantra. I have integrated the essentials of nondual Tantra with the best of
Integral Metatheory to produce a super Tantra that combines the best of
each.
THE USE OF RELATIVE BLISS AND LOVE IN TANTRA
There are two feelings in particular that are associated with the sex act that
Tantra especially focuses on. There are, of course, many feelings associated
with sex, but two stand out: (1) There is a warm, loving, embracing feeling

—a heightened sense of becoming one with another being, and this feeling
of love and loving oneness can be overwhelming at times. And (2), there is,
especially with orgasm, a feeling of ecstasy, bliss, explosive joy and release
—it will put a grin on your face and is generally taken to be the most fun
you can have with your pants off. This love-bliss of sexuality is so
overwhelming that there are many thinkers (including Freud) who believe
that the sexual drive is the strongest drive that human beings have; and
many also claim that it is the fundamental élan vital that moves the entire
universe.
But notice, we have already seen that the fundamental feeling tones of
ultimate Spirit itself are Love and Bliss (capital L, capital B). This is no
accident. According to the Great Traditions, the qualities of Spirit (that is,
qualities in a metaphoric sense—in other words, saguna Brahman) emanate
from it and manifest or create stepped-down, lesser versions of themselves
in the finite, manifest world—which is the method whereby the universe is
created. So both Big Love and Big Bliss, metaphoric characteristics of
ultimate Spirit itself, step down into the manifest, finite world and give rise
to, and appear as, the lesser love and lesser bliss of sexuality itself. By
virtue of Nonduality, they are directly connected. Just as transcendental
clarity and small anger are directly connected in ultimate Reality, so Big
Love and small love, Big Bliss and small bliss, are two ends of the same
stick; or more appropriately, the north and south poles of a single magnet.
By plugging into one, you can directly and immediately plug into the other.
That is the core principle behind the famous tantric sexual practice.
At this time (2022), I am creating a very detailed course in Integral
Tantra, as part of a major presentation of Full-Spectrum Mindfulness. So if
you are interested in this practice, please keep an eye out for it (see the
website for Integral Life, www.IntegralLife.com). But I’m going to present,
in a slightly simpler form, some of these practices in the next chapter, so
you can try them out for yourself and see exactly what’s involved. And you
can easily incorporate these tantric practices into your own ongoing Integral
Life Practice (or any other spiritual practice you might have). The
fundamental background ideas of this Integral Tantra are fully and faithfully

grounded in tantric traditions from around the world, but much of the
presentation itself is significantly unique, and some of these practices are
entirely new and are generated by the insights that come with the Integral
Framework. So with that in mind, here we go.
OceanofPDF.com

19
The Practice of Integral Sexual Tantra
RECOGNITION IN TANTRA
There are numerous types of tantric practices. For example, and to focus on
male sexuality for just a moment—there are practices that separate orgasm
from the act of ejaculation, so that it becomes entirely possible for a man to
experience several orgasms one after another—without ejaculating. (This
was another fascinating discovery made by tantric practitioners, which used
bliss as part of their spiritual practice.) Having multiple orgasms without
ejaculating could be used to bring about an explosive expansion of bliss
from out of the genital region that engulfed the whole body and then spilled
out of the body into the entire world—a whole-bodied orgasm with a worldengulfing bliss. These practices (by both sexes) are always coupled with
breathing exercises that instead of allowing sexual sensations to orient
downward and outward, deliberately refocus and guide them to move
inward and upward. That is, with the out-breath, they move them from the
genital area to the base of the spine, and from there up the spine to the brain
itself, and then even beyond the brain to the infinite Light and
Consciousness at and beyond the crown. Then on the in-breath, the entire
sequence is reversed. The woman does the same thing, moving any sexual
sensations (on the out-breath) from the genital region to the base of the
spine to the crown and beyond to the entire Kosmos, and reversing the
sequence on the in-breath, bringing the Light and Consciousness down from

above and into the crown, then down the face and the body to the genital
region below.
Not only is Tantra said to be the fun and easy path, it is, in some tantric
traditions, said to be potentially quite dangerous, simply because it is so
powerful. I have taken all of these dangers into careful account, and my
version of Integral Tantra has few, if any, of them. I have practiced Tantra
myself for some forty years, and I know all of these dangererous spots quite
well by now, so I knew exactly what to leave out. It’s not only that I have
deliberately left out most of the dangerous parts but also that the Integral
framework provides so much balance that the dangers seem to drop out. All
I can say is that I have been teaching Integral Tantra for almost thirty years,
and none of my students have had any of these dangerous episodes occur. I
take this part of Tantra very seriously, and I can, with a fair amount of
certainty, assure you that you have little to worry about.
Typical tantric exercises take at least a month or two to start having any
effects; they rewire certain circuits in the brain (via neuroplasticity). And
these practices or exercises take a fair amount of effort. They are complex
and do take some time before you will see results.[1]
In contrast, Integral Tantra isolates those aspects of this expanded bliss
and loving oneness that are indeed ever-present, which you can realize right
now and certainly during any sexual activity that you wish. We’re going to
focus on those recognition or pointing-out instructions right now—they are,
in any event, the real core of Tantra itself.
One small piece of background information: when you breath out,
visualizing awareness moving up the spine, rising above and beyond the
crown of the head to an infinite release into Luminous Freedom and infinite
Consciousness, is getting in touch with turiya, the infinite Witness, pure
radical Freedom, with its inherent Bliss. Then from that stance Above, you
breathe in, breathing in that infinite Light and Consciousness from Above
down and into the crown, bringing the Bliss with it, and then down the face
(with mouth fully closed), into the throat and chest, and then into the
abdomen and genital area. Thus the infinite Light Above (which is pure
Witnessing Awareness) is brought down and into all of the Life Below—a

combination that evokes the unity or Fullness of One Taste, turiyatita,
whose Love is available to hug and embrace the entire World.
That combination of Light and Life, Freedom and Fullness, with its Big
Bliss and Big Love, provides the specific force and drive of the loving-bliss
that is sexuality. That is how they are connected. In other words, the
Blissful Freedom of the Witness and the Loving Fullness of One Taste are
the ultimate spiritual qualities that directly manifest as the blissful-love of
sexuality, which is why the latter can most definitely be used to climb back
to the former. Thus, sex doesn’t prevent Spirit: it is a direct road to Spirit.
Since this involves the two highest states (the Witness and One Taste),
the current of Life-up-and-into-Light and then Light-down-and-into-Life is
an ever-present circuit of divine Energy. The Taoists call it the
“microcosmic orbit,” since it is reproducing currents in the body that are
said to drive the entire Kosmos. And this is indeed ever-present, this union
of Freedom and Fullness, Bliss and Love, and its constant circulation
throughout the body-mind.
The relationship between this ultimate Blissful Love (capital B, capital
L) and the relative bliss and love that’s found in sexuality is important. First
of all, small bliss and small love have opposites: bliss has as its opposite
something like misery, anguish, or torment, and ordinary love has as its
opposite hatred, hostility, some say fear. But Big Bliss and Big Love are
infinite; they have no opposites; they’re nondual—they are a capital B Bliss
beyond the opposites of ordinary bliss and misery and a capital L Love
beyond the opposites of ordinary love and hate. And they are not temporal,
merely coming and going; they are eternal, that is, ever-present. Since small
bliss and small love are finite and temporal, they do indeed come and go;
they arrive, stay a while, then fade. They have boundaries, insides and
outsides, limits, and beginnings and endings. But Big Bliss and Big Love do
not come and go at all; they are the ever-present feeling tones of the everpresent Freedom and Fullness of the ever-present Witness and One Taste.
They are feeling tones that underlie (Witness and Unify) and are fully
present with small bliss and misery, and small love and hate; in fact, they
are fully present with all opposites and emotions as they constantly parade

by in the passing present of Awareness. They are among the ultimate
realities that are always already fully present, the Bliss-Love that is the
texture of this timeless Now.
But how can we truly recognize this Presence?
This is precisely where the experiential practice of sexual Integral
Tantra comes in. Integral Tantra uses the relative and finite feelings of
sexual bliss and love to remember and recognize the ultimate and eternal
Feelings of spiritual Bliss and Love. It uses sexual bliss and love (which
come and go) to directly recognize spiritual Bliss and Love (which are everpresent). In short, it uses the practice of sex to recognize Spirit. So, after all
that background, let’s start.
USING SEX TO RECOGNIZE THE BLISSFUL WITNESS
I will begin by distinguishing Bliss and Love (since they technically belong
to two different ultimate states—namely, the Witness and One Taste),
approaching them one at a time, and then I will reunite them (which is their
ultimate Reality or Condition anyway). At that point, if you are having
trouble practicing them together, I will provide some instructions to help
with that. I will start with the Big Bliss (deep Joy or core Happiness)—the
“serene, cognitive Blissfulness” of the Witness.
When beginning sexual activity (and this can be straight, gay, lesbian,
trans, bi, or any other form), begin by resting in the Witness, since we’re
focusing on Bliss.
Make sure that, as the Witness, your relationship to your body is exactly
the same as your relationship to your partner’s body. The Witness,
remember, is not more identified with feelings that occur “in here,” in your
body/brain, than it is with objects arising “out there.” The Witness is neither
inside nor outside—it evenly and equally Witnesses both inside and outside
and is itself merely Free. So you can check if you are Witnessing correctly
by making sure that, as the Witness, your relationship to objects arising “in
here,” in the interior, is exactly the same as your relationship to objects
arising “out there,” in the exterior—both interior and exterior are Witnessed

exactly the same. So make sure that, as the Witness, your relationship to
your body is just the same as your relationship to your partner’s body—they
are both equally objects of your Witnessing Self, and you are identified with
neither. You can even see both bodies as being one single body—but in any
event, you are not identified with either one. You are the pure Witness in all
its Freedom (I am not this, not that—I am Free from this and Free from
that). If you cannot get fully into the Witness, get as close to it as possible,
and then engage in the sexual practice however you wish.
The one thing you want to do differently is that even though, as the
Witness, you are not identified with any objects at all but are merely their
pure Witness, nonetheless, in this specific practice, begin to take any
feelings of pleasure or bliss, no matter where they originate, and directly
identify them with the Witness. That is, feel the pleasure, then “feel” the
Witness, and then identify those two sensations—the immediate feelings of
pleasure or bliss and the feeling of the pure Witness. Allow that pleasure to
begin to see the world; allow that pleasure to begin to Witness the world.
We have already discovered that, ultimately, the Blissful Witness or a
serene cognitive Blissfulness sees the world, and that is where this sexual
practice is headed.
If you have trouble making this connection between Bliss and the
Witness, it often helps to remember that we are aiming for what Maslow
called “a serene, cognitive Blissfulness”—which points to two aspects of the
Witness, its Knowing (or cognitive) part and its Freedom/Blissfulness (or
feeling) part. These really aren’t different “parts” of the Witness; they are
two different names for it when we conventionally look at it from two
different perspectives (the perspective of knowing or cognizing and the
perspective of feeling). So, in this practice, you start to work toward the
“blissfulness” part by identifying any pleasure or bliss that you have with
the cognizing or knowing part of the Witness. Even though the Witness is a
Cognizing Awareness, not anything cognized, in this practice, you are going
to identify any pleasure or bliss that arises with the knowing or cognizing
part of the Witness since you are aiming for a “serene, cognitive
Blissfulness.” So, as any pleasure or bliss arises, identify your own

Knowing awareness with it, and then “Bliss is seeing the world,” “Bliss is
touching my partner,” “Bliss is making love,” and so on. Don’t worry, this
won’t disrupt the totally Free nature of the Witness, because the Witness
contains a total Freedom/Blissfulness aspect already, and that aspect is
completely Nondual, Empty, and All-inclusive. Identifying it with
conventional pleasure is just a beginner’s step—it won’t affect the infinity
or eternity of the Witness; it will simply help to remind you of and evoke
the real Bliss underlying it.
Tibetan Buddhists call the Witness an “ongoing knowingness.” The
“knowingness” is the cognitive part, and the “ongoing” is the always
ongoing, ever-present, or eternal part. However, this phrase is used in a very
special way by Tibetan Buddhists. They mean that when you are feeling this
ongoing knowingness, you separate the feeling of knowing from anything
that is known. In other words, you want just the feeling of knowing, not
knowing something or knowing this or that—just the pure feeling of
knowing itself. After all, the Witness is a pure Knower, not anything known.
And further, the “ongoing” part doesn’t leave any room for knowing this,
knowing that, or knowing some object, because no object is ever-present or
eternal—all objects keep moving by in the passing present, in the world of
time. So an “ongoing knowingness” means an “ongoing, ever-present
Witness, which is also an “ever-present cognitive (or knowing)
Blissfulness” (especially when we identify the Witness with any pleasure or
bliss that arises).
To finish this part of the recommendation, when you are in the pure
Witness, you are in an ongoing knowingness—an ongoing sense of
knowing, not anything known (anything that is arising is just fine)—except
that, for this practice, you are identified with any pleasure or bliss that is
arising. Get into this ongoing knowingness, and then start identifying any
pleasurable or blissful feelings that arise during sex with the feeling of this
ongoing knowingness, since you are aiming for a serene, cognitive
Blissfulness, which is what this exercise will evoke in you.
When Bliss is identified with the Witness, one could say things like
“Bliss sees (or Witnesses) the world,” “Bliss sees that building,” “Bliss

touches the tree,” “Bliss feels the dog,” “Bliss is making love,” and so on.
These are all perfect examples of Bliss being a cognitive Blissfulness and
thus actually doing the cognizing, knowing, or seeing. In other words, this
is Bliss being fully one with the knowing Witness—it’s a Witnessing
Blissfulness, a cognitive Blissfulness, or a knowing Blissfulness. The idea
is simply to get the two “parts” of the Witness together—the knowing (or
cognitive) part and the feeling (or freedom/blissfulness) part. We have
already spent a lot of time on Freedom as being an inherent part of the
Witness, so that part should be easy. Now we’re working on the blissfulness
part by pointing out that Bliss is the inherent Feeling of the Freedom of the
Witness. An easy way to remember these two parts is to recall Maslow’s
phrase “a witnessing, a cognitive Blissfulness.” If you have been practicing
a Witnessing awareness, you already have the cognitive part down; now all
you need to do is add the Blissfulness part.
And that is just a warm-up for the main event.
As orgasm approaches, relax your body into its present feelings, and
prepare to take the intense feelings that arise with orgasm and directly apply
them to the Witness. As you feel the beginning of intense orgasmic bliss,
feel that the bliss is the same as your Witnessing Self, and look at the world
through this Blissful Witness. Feel that orgasmic bliss to be one with the
Witness itself; feel that bliss to be the very texture of the Observing Self,
the very nature of the Seeing Self, and feel that bliss/Bliss looking at the
entire world through the Witness in all directions.
In other words, use the small bliss of sexual release to remind you of,
evoke, and even enhance the Big Inclusive Bliss that is already present in
the very nature of the Witness itself. You are using the intensity of a small
temporal sexual bliss to point to and evoke a timeless, ever-present Big
Bliss. Feel that sexual bliss, and feel deeply into the Witness as well, and let
that intense sexual bliss remind you of, and point to, an infinitely bigger and
larger cognitive Bliss that stretches to infinity. That small bliss will
eventually come to an end; that Big Bliss will not. Use that transitory, small
bliss to evoke, resonate with, remind, and even bring forth that ultimate
Bliss or cognitive Blissfulness that is always already the case.

This is a practice, which means you should do it over and over until it
starts to click. Use the felt qualities and textures of sexual bliss, and transfer
them to the Witness. Feel the Witness as having those qualities of bliss, and
then Witness the world from that Bliss. Allow I AMness to become that
Bliss—that’s a true cognitive Blissfulness. As you identify that bliss with
the Witness itself and begin to look at the world through the eyes of a
totally Blissful Witness, that bliss will start to evoke Big Bliss, because it is
tapping into the qualities of the ever-present, infinite Witness itself—it is
actually evoking the ever-present, infinite Big Bliss of the true Witness.
And thus, as cognitive Blissfulness, I-I witness my body; as cognitive
Blissfulness, I-I am aware of my partner’s body; as cognitive Blissfulness,
I-I see the bed we are on; as cognitive Blissfulness, I-I am aware of the
room arising within my own Blissful Awareness. The radical Freedom of
the Witness generates a Bliss that finds even samsara ecstatic. I am not in
the bedroom; the bedroom is arising within me, within my own Blissful
Awareness. I am not in the bed; the bed is arising within my own Blissful
Awareness. I am not lying next to my partner’s body; both my body and my
partner’s body are arising within me, within my own Blissful Awareness.
And I notice that, indeed, all of them are arising in a Field of deep Blissful
Awareness. The bliss of sexual ecstasy has reminded me of, evoked, and
even enhanced the ever-present Bliss that is the very core of my true
Witness, and so, as the Blissful Witness, as cognitive Blissfulness, I see the
entire world. Every sensation, every feeling, every thought, arises within a
Field of Blissful Witnessing. The entire World is nothing but a modification
of this timeless Bliss. And this capital B Bliss, because it does not come and
go, continuously underlies the coming and going of all lesser feelings (this
is indeed the “ongoing” part—the ever-present part—of the blissful
Witness). This is the awareness of an Ecstatically Free and deeply Blissful
Witness.
As the temporal, sexual bliss fades, keep that bliss/Bliss in memory and
continue to apply it to the Witness. Integral Tantra calls this an “orgasm
memory”: every time you have an orgasm, identify that bliss with the
Witness itself, and when that orgasmic bliss fades, identify the memory of

that bliss with the Witness itself. Throughout the day, as you practice
Witnessing Awareness, whenever you are in touch with the Witness,
immediately apply the memory of intense sexual bliss to the Witness, and
allow that cognitive Blissfulness to observe the world. Allow the ecstatic
thrill of sexual orgasm to be felt as the very Witness that is watching the
world. Directly feel that. You, as Bliss, Witness it all. That’s the real
meaning of cognitive Blissfulness.
You can do this orgasm memory right now. Get into a Witnessing
awareness—or as close to it as possible—and remember the intense bliss of
an orgasm. Then apply that blissful feeling to the Witness, and look at the
world through that blissful Witnessing, that cognitive Blissfulness. It’s
fairly easy, yes?
To return to the sex act itself—as the small bliss continues to fade, keep
a sharp eye out for that larger Bliss that does not fade. Allow that small bliss
to resonate deeply with an Awareness in you that is ecstatic at being
liberated from all anguish, suffering, and pain. That nirvanic Release is an
ecstatic realization, and it is much bigger than the small bliss of sexuality
because it exists ever-presently, eternally, and there are no limits to it—it
doesn’t just pop into existence, stay a bit, light your lights, and then
disappear. It is the eternal core of the infinite Freedom that is your own
cognizing Awareness, the Original Face that you had before your parents
were born—and that Face has a really Big-Bliss smile.
Now, just as Big Bliss is said to have stepped down from the original
quality of pure Spirit into the manifest world, resulting in a temporal,
limited, finite sexual drive, so too the original intensity of this Big Bliss has
also stepped down by several degrees, so that it is usually felt to be weaker
than sexual bliss. Thus, for most people, the intensity of the bliss of
conventional orgasm is, at least to begin with, significantly greater than the
Big Bliss of the Witness’s Freedom. Thus, when you practice transferring
the feeling of sexual bliss to the feeling of the Witnessing Self, it will feel
like it is enhancing or magnifying the feeling of ever-present Bliss. This
will indeed give you a hint of the intensity of Bliss that you will begin to
feel as you more deeply fall into the realm of the pure Witness and its

(nirvanic) Freedom. As you begin to vibrate more with the Bliss with a
capital B, its original intensity will indeed eventually overtake and outshine
that of finite sexual bliss. And frankly, when that happens, many people
stop having ordinary orgasms, because they are such a letdown, and do
nothing but waste bioenergy.
In any event, the exercise uses the small, relative, finite bliss of sexual
orgasm to remind you of, evoke, and enhance the ever-present Big Bliss of
your own pure Awareness—a genuine cognitive Blissfulness. This will
directly connect Spirit and sex, and using sexual bliss to recognize,
remember, and enhance the Big Bliss of Spiritual Awareness is an
application of tantric principles. Notice, too, that, for many mystics around
the world and throughout history, by far the most-often used analogy for the
state of mystical union is that of sexual union. Mystics claim that sexual
union is the closest analogy to mystical union because they are indeed
directly connected—sex is not something that prevents the presence of
Spirit; it is a direct manifestation of, and a road that leads straight to, Spirit
itself. This understanding is the fruit of that original insight that first drove
Nagarjuna to the understanding of Nonduality (and similar realizations start
to appear in Western mystics as well). The ultimate Reality of sex and Spirit
is not-two—and there it is.
USING SEX TO RECOGNIZE LOVING ONE TASTE
The same thing applies, across the board, to Big Love and the loving
oneness of sexual union. We want to use the immediate feelings of sexual
unity and the warm, caring, loving feelings of oneness that arise during sex
to remind us of, evoke, and enhance the Big Love that arises from the
radical Fullness of a pure One Taste. These two loves are indeed connected
—the love that is present in sexuality is a stepped-down version of the
timeless Loving Oneness that is ultimate Spirit.
So get into a stance of One Taste and nondual Suchness, using whatever
means work best for you. I recommend the headless exercise for a start, so
I’ll include some comments on how to use the headless condition in the

instructions I’m giving. (See the section “One Taste, Round 1” in chapter
16, “Pointing Out the Witness and One Taste,” for instructions on how to
get into the headless state.) But you don’t have to use the headless
experience if you don’t want to; just get into a One Taste experience using
any means that you care to. If you can’t quite get into the state of One Taste,
that’s fine, get as close as you can, and then proceed with the instructions.
The loving feelings evoked during the exercise will themselves act as
pointers—concrete pointing-out instructions—that will help you to spot and
recognize the deeper, ever-present, radical Loving Oneness that is already
perfectly present as a profound background reflecting the utter Fullness of
your own One Taste (just as your own headlessness is already happening
and is fully present in any event, whether you realize it or not).
As you engage in sex, if you in One Taste to some degree, then
everything that is arising will already feel like a texture of your own Being,
a modification of your own Awareness, and you are all of that. If you are
using the headless exercise, then you will already tend to be one with the
entire world, which will be arising right where you thought your head was.
But whether or not you are using the headless exercise, be sure to heed the
following instructions—they will have important effects on you. You want
to pay particular attention, within that all-embracing Big Space, to the
feelings of warm connection, deep care, and loving embrace, and
particularly to any of the feelings of warm, loving oneness or loving union
with your partner. If you are truly in a One-Taste Awareness, then these
feeling of loving union will already be arising within the even larger Space
of a timeless Loving Oneness. That’s fine; at least to start, it may appear
that this loving sexual union with your partner is more intense that the everpresent Loving Fullness of your own One Taste, which applies not just to
your partner but to everybody and everything. This strong sexual feeling of
warm unity will definitely give you a direct hint of the intensity and
outrageous Loving Fullness that you will begin to feel almost constantly as
you more deeply and directly awaken as real One Taste and pure Suchness.
To summarize, begin by using the small, relative, finite, loving union of
sexual oneness to remind you of, evoke, and enhance the ever-present

Loving Oneness of your own nondual Awareness. During sex, whenever
you feel the intensity of any sort of loving touch, care, tenderness, or,
especially, loving unity or oneness, focus on that feeling of oneness and
apply it to the Fullness of One Taste.
Even if you have not yet fully accessed the state of One Taste, this
practice is still simple: get as close as you can to One Taste, begin sexual
activity, and right at the moment that, for example, you feel an
overwhelming loving oneness for your partner—“I love you so much I can’t
stand it!”—take that intense love-feeling of oneness, and allow it to expand
and fully apply to the entire World. Even if you are doing the headless
experiment and are one with the World, which is in unity with you and your
headless state, allow the intensity of this feeling of loving oneness to apply
to your own unified state with the World. Thus, looking at that vast expanse
“out there,” feel that “I love you so much I can’t stand it!” and throw
yourself into a direct unity with the World—“I love you so much I am you!”
Whenever you wonder exactly what it would feel like to be one with the
entire World, just think of your feelings of being one with your partner and
then expand those feelings to embrace the entire universe. (And do this
even if you are in a headless one state—you want to transfer this intensity to
your headless one state condition.) Or, use those feelings of loving oneness
with your partner to recognize and feel a similar Loving Oneness that is
already present in your Heart and already embraces the entire World—this
is your own ever-present One Taste.
Either way, allow your feelings of sexual loving oneness to expand to
the entire universe. “I love it All! Because I am it All!” At the very least,
start with the first of those two statements, and feel that “I love it All!” In
other words, take up the stance that you are making love to the entire world,
and get a hold of that feeling. Thus, as you are making love to your partner,
particularly if and as a true feeling of loving oneness with your partner
arises, simply expand that feeling of oneness to the entire World.
In short, transfer your feeling of loving your partner to One Taste’s
Love of (and as) the entire World—go from thinking and feeling that you
are making love with your partner to thinking and feeling that you are

making Love with the entire World. Realize that you’re fully One with all of
it.
One of the easiest ways to do this is indeed to use the headless exercise:
As you are making love with your partner, notice the entire visual field of
the whole world arising around you, and then realize that the entire field is
actually arising “in here,” right where you thought your head was, and that
you’re one with all of it. Then as you feel the unity of that headless state,
take the warm feeling of love that you have for your partner and transfer it
to the entire visual field and all of the “objects” that are in it, all of which
are now arising right where your head used to be.
The headless experience collapses your subject and object into a unity
of awareness by putting the entire world “out there” into a oneness with “in
here,” right where your head used to be, which is a real version of One
Taste. Then, when you take any loving feelings that you have for your
partner and transfer them to the total unity that the headless world now
offers you, this brings together a real love (for your partner) and a real state
of unity (in the headless condition)—which makes it very hard to miss or
ignore the Loving Unity of One Taste. And this bringing together often will
directly evoke a Loving One Taste in you.
You are bringing together the genuine love that you feel for you partner
and a genuine, nondual, headless oneness to provide a Loving Unity of One
Taste. You feel the love that is arising right now for your partner, and then,
while feeling that, you also notice that in your visual field, you are one with
the entire world. This loving aspect—which is the part that is added when
you take the present feelings of love for your partner and bring them into
the headless state of unity—might have been missing when you practiced
the headless exercise by itself. Since that loving feeling and your oneness
with the world are now arising together at the same time, this love-plusunity experience is essentially the same as the Loving Unity of a One Taste,
which you will likely start to remember, evoke, and become aware of.
In other words, this will intensify the warm feelings of One Taste—it
will increase the amperage of the loving feeling that the Fullness of One
Taste generates. Allow these sexual love-feelings to expand and apply to the

entire World, which I am one with and that is arising right here, right where
I thought my head was. The Loving Fullness of One Taste is always already
doing this right now anyway, and so you can actively search in your
awareness for that Loving Radiance that is already overflowing and
embracing the entire universe in the Oneness of a radical Love—and hence
recognize your own ever-present One Taste, directly arising as your own
headless state of Unity, which is now a Loving Unity.
As with bliss, retain a memory of this intense feeling of loving oneness
generated during sex, and throughout the day apply it to your Awareness as
One Taste (or as a headless One Taste, if you’re doing that version). You
want to evoke, resonate with, remind yourself of, and yes, enhance your
feeling of loving oneness with the entire World—and so allow the feeling of
your sexual union to do just that. It is important that the feeling of loving
your partner expands to the feeling of loving the entire world. (At least
move from “I’m making love with my partner” to “I’m making love with
the entire World!”)
With tantric practice (whether headless or not), we want to take the
feelings of loving oneness that arise during sex and immediately identify
them with One Taste itself, so that, even if I am just “looking” at a tree, or
reading this material, those things are arising in the field of unlimited and
unitary Love that I-I am. The very union that I have when the tree or this
reading material is arising where my head used to be—when the big blue
sky-pancake has fallen directly on my head—is felt as a direct and intense
Love, because that is what it is: a fundamental union, and union is the very
nature of any type of Love.
And so, right where the tree or the reading material or the sky touches
me in a pure Oneness, right where my head used to be but is now a vast All
Space containing everything, is infinite Love—intensely embracing, a
caring kindness, an utter adoration, an outrageous eroticism of radical
Oneness. And this applies even to something as simple as a tree. That Love
as Loving Oneness, which is ever-present, is something that I start to
recognize and remember.

So when I am making love and I start to feel a oneness with my partner,
or our bodies start to merge and fuse together, or the love for my partner
becomes so intense that begin to dissolve as a separate self, then I let that
love spill out of me and move beyond my partner till it embraces the entire
World. I am then fused with the entire universe in exactly the same way as I
am fused with my partner. I am applying that sexual union to One Taste,
and the entire universe is arising within me, in my headless, unitary
condition and my radically Loving Embrace.
Here’s another way to think of this practice: I take all my feelings of
erotic sexual oneness and disperse them evenly throughout the entire field
of present Awareness. I move from “I’m one with my partner!” to “I’m one
with the World!”—I am headlessly one with everything. In this way, the
texture of One Taste, which is a radical Fullness felt as deep Loving
Oneness, is immediately evoked and enhanced by this sexual feeling of
love. The very atmosphere of intense sexual embrace is spread evenly
throughout my Awareness, and hence the oneness of Awareness with every
object that it touches—which is ALL of them—is immediately felt as an
erotic, outrageous, loving Oneness—which hugs the entire universe in a
state of exuberant Love. And it is the overflowing embrace and startling
intensity of an intimate loving Oneness that can’t get any closer that is
remembered, evoked, and enhanced as I transfer and expand all of those
feelings from a sexual embrace to the very atmosphere of One Taste itself.
Thus, where previously a separate “I”-sense would see the distanced
“tree out there,” in One Taste, the unity of I-see-the-tree is what now sees
itself, a fully headless condition, with no inside and no outside, “just this”—
and this Suchness, Thusness, or Is-ness radiates a subtle feeling of Love in
all directions (a love transferred and expanded from my partner to the entire
world in a headless unity). This is no longer the feeling of conventional
love, where I especially love a particular person or thing, but a feeling of
infinite Love because I love everything with no exceptions. It is, after all, an
infinite and eternal Love, which is why it feels so different from
conventional love. For the same reason, infinite and eternal Big Bliss can
feel things that ordinary bliss cannot feel, which is why Big Bliss, even

though it is an ultimate Freedom and is therefore neti, neti, can still be felt
as Ananda or Big Bliss. That’s an important point worth remembering.
Hence, I no longer simply see the tree; I Love the tree—more
accurately, both I and the tree arise in the Field of Love that is Suchness
itself, and I am all of that. But “all of that” is becoming warmer and warmer
as the ever-present Love that is its true texture is becoming more and more
recognized. And this is exactly what happens when I take the sexual
feelings of loving oneness for my partner and apply them immediately to
the Field of Unitary Awareness. This present moment’s Suchness begins to
increase, radiate, and vibrate with the Love that moves the sun and other
stars. There is literally nothing arising anywhere that I don’t deeply Love—
not a single thing, anywhere.
Imagine a life drenched with that much Love, radiating in all directions,
saturating you and everything else in its all-pervading path! This Love spills
out of the union between me and my partner, and precisely because its own
Source is nothing less than the all-pervading Big Love that is Spiritual
Wholeness itself, that feeling of warm, sexual oneness can literally embrace
the All. It can spill out of me and my partner and fill the entire room, spill
out of the room and fill the entire building, and expand from the building to
the whole planet, the entire solar system, the universe itself—and I am That.
I very simply am just That, and I disappear into the all-pervading Love that
is Spirit.
As my Awareness touches each and every thing and knows that thing by
being it—by being immediately one with it (just like I am one with the big
blue pancake sitting directly where my head used to be)—that Oneness
itself is increasingly recognized as the subtle embrace of an infinite Love. “I
am one with the mountain” means “I Love the mountain, which I am.”
Also, I Love that building, I Love those cars, and I Love those people
walking by; I Love the rain, I Love the wind, and I Love the blistering sun.
And—perhaps shockingly—I Love the ozone hole, I Love global warming,
and I Love that terrorist attack; I love Hitler, I Love Stalin, and I Love Mao
Tse-tung; I Love this anger, I Love this pain, and I Love this agonizing
shame. This Love is absolutely all-inclusive, embracing every single thing

and event in a radiant Field of timeless Love, thrilling me with its ecstatic
care, its adoring kindness, and its perfectly felt (headless) Unity.
These things happen because this Love and Bliss are just names for the
ultimate Ground of All Being, and absolutely everything that exists—good
and evil, right and wrong, Adolph Hitler and all—have this as their Ground,
or they simply would not exist in the first place. This kind of Love is often
called “unconditional Love”—and it is indeed infinitely unconditional,
which means that it Loves everything that arises with a 100 percent
acceptance—not 95 percent, not 99 percent—but 100 percent, absolutely
everything. Nothing is rejected; all is fully accepted—and that is exactly
what a Nondual or ultimate Unity consciousness does. There are no empty
spaces left in my heart, because the entire universe has taken up residence
therein.
As that realization deepens more and more, as you begin to be drenched
in the overflowing Fullness of Big Love, and as the truly infinite
dimensions of Big Love become more and more recognized and
undiminished, the superabundance of that infinite Love will eventually
outshine and overcome the limitations of any finite sexual embrace. When
that happens, there is again a major shift in how sex is approached. It is no
longer used as a means to some end—whether to express a small personal
love or provide release from tension—but instead is seen as a pure
ornament and manifestation of that Love that does indeed move the sun and
other stars. At this point, some people will stop having ordinary orgasms,
because they’re so constricting. Others will use orgasmic sex as a pure
expression of that all-pervading Love. But one thing is certain: never again
will sexuality be viewed as an obstacle to Spirit.
THE ULTIMATE UNITY OF BLISS AND LOVE
The fundamental point is that every time you have sex, you are on a road
that leads directly and unerringly to a profound Spiritual realization, a very
profound Wholeness. You are being shown an ecstatic bliss and a real love
that are connected directly and immediately to the Big Bliss and Big Love

that is their own Divine origin. And just as sexual bliss and love are usually
intertwined and arise together, so Big Bliss and Big Love are seen to be,
particularly as they progress, coemergents of one’s own deepest Condition.
As a Loving Bliss and a Blissful Love, they resonate deeply and directly
with your own authentic Suchness in this Standing Present, textures of this
timeless Now.
Notice how Bliss and Love fit together and what each brings to the
conjunction. When I add Love to Bliss for a Loving Bliss (or Bliss infused
with Love), the sense of Bliss—which includes variations such as a deep
Joy or a core Happiness—expands out of itself and begins to embrace the
entire world. Usually Bliss is impervious and oblivious to the world,
because it is connected with the Witness, which itself is totally detached
from the world. So Big Bliss is equally detached—that is, it is equally
Happy no matter what happens “in front” of it in the objective world or how
it happens—Happy is Happy, no matter what. This nirvanic Release could
witness its human form burn to ashes on the ground without even blinking,
it’s that Free from the exterior and interior world. In other words, the Bliss
that is inherent in the Witness is likewise Free from all events happening
around it in the world—it is indeed impervious and oblivious.
But when that Bliss (or Joy or Happiness) is suffused by, and united
with, Love, it begins to reach out of itself to embrace the world—it wants
the world also to be Happy, because now it Loves the world. Loving Bliss is
a Bliss that embraces, enfolds, and enwraps the entire world, an ecstatic
Bliss that is in Love with the whole world and all of its inhabitants and in
all of its ups and downs, joys and sorrows, amusements and sadnesses. Bliss
united with Love is no longer detached and oblivious; it’s absolutely AllEmbracing.
So check this out by simply imagining, right now, that you are deeply
Happy—you are in a state of genuine Joy, a radiant Bliss. There is no
reason for this; you are just overflowing with Bliss—no matter what’s going
on out there. One with the Witness, you are totally detached from the
World, which simply passes by “in front” of you, while you remain
overflowing with a Blissful Happiness, totally aware of everything that is

happening around you but attached to none of it. You are simply filled with
Bliss, and as a Freedom-filled Bliss usually is, it is impervious to the world.
Then imagine the entire world starts to impinge on your blissful
Awareness, and you see your own Blissful Happiness reach out and begin to
hug, embrace, and enfold the entire world and all of its inhabitants. You
spread this infinite Bliss to each and every one of them. All of them, now
radiantly Happy, are enfolded in your own all-inclusive Blissfulness. They
are all arising as gestures within your primordially Blissful Awareness, and
you are all of this—a Loving Bliss happily embracing the All.
The easiest way to do this is to remember the headless exercise. As you
begin Witnessing the world—totally separate from it—you then notice that
it is actually arising “in here,” on this side of your face, right where your
head used to be, so that you are actually one with the world. Then simply
realize—and directly feel—that the unitary oneness of this headless
condition is itself the deep feeling of an All-Embracing Oneness or a
genuine Love—or, in this example, a Loving Bliss.
And notice that, in this visualization, Big Bliss does not lose its radical
Freedom just because it has become one with the entire world. Since this
Bliss is one with Love and the two of them are fully joined, they each bring
their own characteristics to the union—Love brings its Oneness, and Bliss
brings its Freedom.
In short, Love brings to Bliss a sense of radical Oneness, Fullness, or
Wholeness—a Bliss-drenched Kosmic consciousness. Think of it as a
chocolate-covered universe—the entire world indeed is One Taste, and the
taste is deliciously and blissfully Divine—as I said, chocolate.
On the other hand, when Bliss is added to Love for a Blissful Love (or
Love infused with Bliss), it’s still true that Love starts out deeply in Love
with the world and one with it as well. When that loving Embrace and
infinite Unity becomes a Blissful Love, Bliss injects it with an infinite
Delight, a radiant Thrill, a smiling Exuberance, Happiness, and Bliss that
radiates throughout. Notice that when most people fall in love, at first it is
often a wild happiness and blissful delight. But as love continues forward,
the more intense it becomes, the more often it can bring feelings of

jealousy, anxiety, even suspicion, because love is just a feeling-one-with; it
doesn’t matter whether that oneness is happy or sad. If you really love
somebody, you love them whether they’re happy or sad. And sad it often is,
since love generates states of worry, tension, upset, and drama. As Woody
Allen put it, “Love causes tension; sex relieves it.”
In other words, what relieves the tension of love is the bliss of sex—that
is, the genuine happiness of a real Bliss. So a Blissful Love is pushed
permanently into the Happy camp. Whether there’s sadness in the world or
not, the inclusion of Blissful Freedom releases Love from any lingering
attachment or grasping and returns it to an equanimity of Loving all equally
—and the Joy and Ecstasy that it evokes. This is a Blissful Love, happy to
be the ever-present texture of the Fullness of One Taste. And that is what
Bliss brings to Love—an ecstatic Joy or Happiness in the midst of it all.
There is not just a Wholeness (which Love will provide) but a Happy
Wholeness of a Blissful Love.
SUMMARY
We have the Freedom of the Witness, which is felt as Bliss, and that Blissful
feeling is simply the feeling tone of the total transcendence of the world and
all its suffering. This is felt as a core Bliss, or as a deep Joy, or as an
ongoing Happiness, or as any such similar Ananda feeling. It is the deep
feeling of a purely liberated nirvana, totally free from samsara and ready to
burn its human form to the ground without even flinching. As the Witness is
transcended (but included) in the even greater Wholeness of One Taste—
which unifies nirvana and samsara in a nondual Suchness—the Bliss of the
Free Witness is increasingly merged with the total Loving Fullness of One
Taste. This Loving feeling itself is the profound resonance now arising in a
Consciousness that is one with absolutely everything there is—whether
manifest or unmanifest, formed or formless, finite or infinite, negative or
positive, light or dark, happy or sad, ecstatic or miserable, joyous or
wretched. There is nothing outside the radical Fullness of this Nonduality.
As long as “feelings” have any sense in this context, Happy Fullness is felt

as a Blissful Love, embrace, unity, oneness, spaciousness, and wholeness.
The self-contained, impervious feelings of Bliss, Joy, and Happiness, which
are the core of nirvana and nirvanic freedom, give way to profound feelings
that do not stand back from the Kosmos but reach out and radically embrace
it, the most typical of which is a Blissful Love.
And with that, the isolated and set-apart nirvana becomes one with the
entire world of samsara in a deeper nondual Suchness or One Taste, and
Bliss gives way to a Love that transcends and includes it. Thus there is a
Loving Bliss and Blissful Love. You will start to feel Bliss and Love
together as coemergent, as together they come to be the most dominant
feeling tone of the ultimate, timeless Now of one’s own True Nature—the
true feelings of Enlightenment.
Pragmatically, this means that whenever you feel Bliss, don’t just rest
imperviously in its own self-contained delight, but expand that Bliss to a
loving embrace of the entire world—hence, Loving Bliss. And likewise,
whenever you feel Love, make sure to inject it with a real Happiness, so
that you are feeling a truly Happy Wholeness, a Joyous Fullness, a Blissful
Love.
This is important, because Bliss and Love are the most common
feelings elicited by the two highest or ultimate states of consciousness—
turiya and turiyatita—and thus evoking both feeling tones together is an
important part of our lives. Or perhaps I ought to say, it should be an
important part of our lives.
To bring Bliss and Love together using the headless exercise, do the
following: Get into the headless state, where the entire World is arising “in
here,” right where you thought your head was, and you are totally one with
the World. Then take that unity—that oneness that is sitting right where
your head used to be—and recognize that it is itself a feeling of deep and
all-inclusive Love. You are already in full oneness with the World—it’s
sitting right where your head once was—so simply feel that unity, all of it,
as being a state of pure Love or Loving Oneness. This isn’t hard. Because
you already feel one with the entire World arising where your head used to
be, simply feel that unity as being a Loving Oneness that is in a complete

unity with all of that World—you’re already one with it, simply feel that
oneness as also being a Love-filled Oneness. You’re already one with that
World, now just fall in Love with all of it. And add that Loving feeling to
the already present unity, so that not only do you have a Oneness, you have
a completely Love-filled Oneness (or a Oneness that is felt as being a
completely pure Love, a Love-drenched unity).
After you establish that Loving Oneness, then bring in the feeling of a
happy Bliss, and insert that Bliss into the Loving Oneness. Again, this is a
matter of what you are feeling and a matter of your capacity to bring in
different feelings as needed. You’ve already brought in Love to your
headless unity; now you also want to bring in a Blissful, Happy, or Joyous
feeling as well, and add that to the Love. To the already present Loving
unity with the entire World, add a sense of Blissfulness to it. This will give
you the sense of a Blissful Love, and you will feel this Blissful Love for the
entire World that is arising “in here,” on this side of your face, right where
your head used to be.
These are, so to speak, the mechanical aspects of arriving at a Bliss-andLove of the entire World, by sort of plunking one of those feelings on top of
the other. The idea of using Tantra is to help realize and intensify these
feelings of Bliss and Love, but by using a more organic Tantra, and using it
with real organic sex.
When we do that, we use the passing-present feelings of sexual bliss
and love to recognize, remember, evoke, and enhance the ever-present Big
Bliss and Big Love. As guiding lights, these sexual signposts are
unmistakable and unerring, and they are freely and fully given to you every
single time that you make love. (Indeed, it is because these signposts are
unmistakable and unerring that mystics the world over use sexual love as a
metaphor for Spiritual union.) And you can carry the memory of that
blissful, loving sexual state into the practice of the day, where it will
continue to remind, evoke, and point directly to the ever-present Loving
Bliss and Blissful Love that is your own deepest Condition and eternal
birthright. This is given to you every single time that you have sex. SEX!

Who just died and went to Heaven? It looks like we all have, with this
Tantra.
In short, the Bliss-and-Love of pure Spirit gives rise to the temporal
bliss-love of sex; it is a manifestation in the dimension of Life of an infinite
radiance in the dimension of Light. Put simply, sex and Spirit are directly
connected, and sex, far from being an obstacle to Spirit, is actually a direct
manifestation of—and therefore a direct road that leads straight to—Spirit
itself. And thus, in Integral Tantra, we use the feelings of bliss and love, as
they spontaneously arise in sexual encounter, to remember, evoke, and
enhance the Bliss-and-Love that are the ever-present Feelings of our
nondual Awareness, or real Spirit itself.
Hence, the feelings of bliss and love that arise during sex are an
unerring road to Spiritual realization, and sex itself becomes a true form of
prayer. And, along with Integral Tantra, I recommend that you pray often.
You really can’t pray too much. Pray every day, if you can.
In fact, using Integral Tantra, the more often you pray, the more likely
you will be to Wake Up, and Wake Up to a truly spiritual Wholeness.
So pray often…live long…and prosper.
And once you Wake Up to a true spiritual Wholeness, be sure to include
that along with a full Showing Up, Growing Up, Cleaning Up, and Opening
Up to uncover a genuine Big Wholeness. The good news is that each of
those areas are already present in your awareness right now, and therefore
you can, in this very moment, discover a profound meaning and purpose
right in the midst of your own life. Engage in making room for everything
in your experience and in your world, filling it up completely and totally,
and thus be as contented and as fulfilled as you can be. Finding a truly Big
Wholeness in the very core of your own being, you will never again feel
empty, hollow, worthless, vacant, meaningless, pointless, emptied-out, or
unfulfilled.
Hallelujah and welcome home! I’ve very much enjoyed taking this
journey with you, and I wish you the very best in your future life, which
will be as fulfilling and overflowing with meaning as I’m (now hoping) it
will be.

OceanofPDF.com

Afterword
It is important to realize that all your various areas of development—that is,
your Waking Up, Growing Up, Opening Up, Cleaning Up, and Showing Up
—are fully available to you right now. You can achieve a direct realization
of each of them in this moment, or, at the least, enough of an understanding
of them to know where to look for each of them. This means that you have
access to a very real Big Wholeness, right here and right now—if, as I’ve
often said, you know where to look. And after going through this book, I
believe that you now do know where to look for each of these components
of a genuine Big Wholeness, and thus you can begin to incorporate this Big
Wholeness into your own life, starting right now.
I mean, just look at the areas that we have covered. We started with the
“not disputable” reality of Waking Up, where you could awaken to your
own ultimate Reality in this very Now-moment. Because it’s the “biggest”
part of a Big Wholeness—aiming as it does for a full Kosmic consciousness
or ultimate Unity consciousness—we returned to it at the end of the book
and devoted several chapters to it, but we did indeed start with it.
Then we added an understanding of the importance of Growing Up, and
the fact that, because the stages of Growing Up were discovered only very
recently, there is no Wisdom Tradition anywhere in the world today that
includes them. Understanding the stages of Growing Up also let us fully see
the main difference between traditional religions, which usually have some
portion of their beliefs anchored in an egocentric magic or ethnocentric
mythic-literal stage of development, and modern science, which usually is
founded in some degree of worldcentric, universal rationality (even if it did
tend to reduce everything to a scientific materialism). That also helped us to

understand the important difference between spiritual experience (which is
a direct experience of a genuine Waking Up) and spiritual intelligence
(which is the spiritual thinking or religious response given by any stage of
Growing Up).
We also noted that every stage of Growing Up does indeed contain one
of the multiple intelligences known as “spiritual intelligence,” which
addresses questions in the finite, relative world such as “What is ultimately
real?” or “What is of ultimate concern for me?” Most people in the modern
and postmodern world think that all spirituality originates in a mythic-literal
world, whereas only the magic-mythic forms of religion do so—which is
why the approach that we presented is indeed “spiritual but not religious”
(where “spiritual” applies not to forms of Growing Up but to forms of
Waking Up).
By running through all 6 or so of these major stages of Growing Up,
you can see not only at what stage you are at in this evolutionary process
but also where you are headed, which is toward some sort of an Integral or
systemically unified stage. With your understanding of the wholeness added
by each stage of this evolution, you could then add Growing Up to your
own Big Wholeness.
We then looked at Cleaning Up the shadow material (or unconscious
processes) that you generate at each stage of Growing Up (and Waking Up).
This shadow material is made of all the things in the world that you
genuinely loathe (or in the case of a golden shadow, all the things that you
excessively love), because they represent facets of your own psyche that
you have split off and disowned. And then we saw that the 3-2-1 process
could be applied to virtually any shadows that you have, thus unifying your
psyche with that split-offmaterial—and hence adding the holism of
Cleaning Up to your overall Big Wholeness.
We then turned to Showing Up, making room for all the important
dimension/perspectives in our world—that is, including all 4 quadrants in
our own makeup. There are two Left-hand quadrants (the interiors or
subjects) and two Right-hand quadrants (the exteriors or objects), as well as
two Upper quadrants (the singular or individual) and two Lower quadrants

(the plural or collective), and thus the 4 quadrants provide access to the
inside and outside of the individual and the group. By including all of them,
we make sure that our Big Wholeness is truly “big” and inclusive.
Next we briefly examined Opening Up to an awareness of all our
multiple intelligences, the various lines of development that grow and
evolve through all our major levels of Growing Up. We saw that these lines
or intelligences had evolved in human beings over the course of evolution
because they addressed the many fundamental questions that life kept
throwing at us (for example, moral intelligence addresses “What’s the right
thing to do?”; emotional intelligence “What am I feeling?”; cognitive
intelligence “What am I aware of right now?” spiritual intelligence “What is
my ultimate concern?”). Psychologists believe that there are about a dozen
of them, but many people are unaware of these multiple intelligences, and
thus they don’t ever think about using them. But when include Opening Up
to all of them in our own makeup, this expanded awareness becomes a
valuable part of our Big Wholeness and adds immeasurably to it.
We then circled back to Waking Up, both because it is perhaps the most
important and foundational aspect of a genuine Big Wholeness and also
because it is, in a sense, the “biggest” part of any Big Wholeness, since it
seeks to unify and integrate the entire subjective realm with the entire
objective realm for an ultimate Unity consciousness or a total Kosmic
consciousness—and that’s really big.
We also wanted to visit the significant idea that, in terms of multiple
intelligences, the state of a pure Waking Up or Enlightenment possesses not
only a cognitive intelligence but also an emotional intelligence. That is,
there are definitely the feelings of Enlightenment—in particular, the Bliss
that is the feeling of the Freedom of the Witness and the Love that is the
feeling of the Fullness of One Taste. These are the feelings of the two
ultimate states of consciousness (turiya/Witnessing and turiyatita/One
Taste), and thus, along with those states, these feelings are ever present or
eternal, which means you have access to them in each and every moment,
including right here and right now. Hence, you can add them, right now, to
your own Big Wholeness.

Finally, in relationship to a genuine Waking Up, we closely examined an
Integral sexual Tantra, looking for the eternal or ever-present aspects of that
Tantra, which could be realized right here and now. We found that Tantra
uses the relative feelings generated by sex—the feeling of a blissful ecstasy
and the feeling of a loving oneness—to help elicit and enhance the ultimate
ever-present feelings of Bliss and Love. So you can also add them to your
own sense of Big Wholeness.
I began this book by pointing out that since there are areas of
Wholeness that aren’t at all obvious, if you want to be a “holist”—a
believer in the complete Unity and Wholeness of the universe—you have to
include all of them. But you can include them only if you know where to
look. But once you know where to look, they will become very obvious—
including Growing Up (a Wholeness that becomes obvious when you
include all the important levels in your life), Opening Up (including all the
important lines), Cleaning Up (including all the shadow elements), Waking
Up (including all the important states), and Showing Up (including all the
quadrants).
I think we’ve seen enough to understand that those areas of Wholeness
are not just sitting around waiting for all and sundry to see and discover
them. They really do demand a certain type of active looking in order to
find them. But when and if you do that, they can all be included in not just a
holism or wholeness but also a very expansive, all-inclusive Big
Wholeness.
Incorporating this Big Wholeness into your own life will result in the
resurrection of a genuine meaning in your life. This is because meaning
basically means “wholeness.” That is, to have meaning signifies to “have
access to (or be one with) something significant or meaningful”—and thus a
Big Wholeness will give you access to—and deeply connect you with—a
genuine Big Meaning. With this Big Meaning, you are, in a sense, making
room for everything in your life—all the split-off parts and aspects of
yourself are brought together into a vivid and glorious Wholeness, which
results in a meaning that is altogether profound and out-of-this-world, if
you will. Everything in your experience comes together to pull you into this

deep meaning, where you feel in touch not only with all the important
aspects of yourself but also with everything in your world. At that point,
nothing exists outside of you, and thus everything in your world is deeply
embraced in this all-inclusive Big Meaning—and ultimate Unity
consciousness—that opens up for you. Everything you see and everything
that you touch have a genuine and deeply worthwhile significance and
value for you.
And thus gone is the tyranny and misery of a life lived alone, gone the
shallowness and terror of a life without hope or value. By making room for
everything, everything takes on a real meaning and purpose. And right here,
at the core of your own life, being one with the world means that the entire
world will take on a new, deep, and profound meaning and importance.
This is a meaning that can be found immediately in the midst of your
own everyday life, right here and right now. So never mind the sorrow and
the pity that you thought your life was all about, and welcome to a world
full of glory and presence, significance and value, splendor and promise,
purpose and worth. The entire universe opens up to you as a source of
profound meaning and value, because now you have made room for all the
world in your own awareness—you are directly touching and embracing all
of it. Your life is about making room for everything, because your own
existence is made of everything. From now on, you will never run into an
experience anywhere in the world that is disturbing, foreign, alien, or
frightening, because you have indeed made room for all of it.
This is a radically unprecedented opportunity. It is a tomorrow of
infinite possibilities. It is a future of unending potentials. And it is a world
that you can step directly into—by starting down a path of Waking Up,
Growing Up, Opening Up, Cleaning Up, and Showing Up—and beginning
that right now. This is your outrageous destiny, your gorgeous glory, your
everlasting horizon, a path without date or duration, on a road without aim
or goal, toward a realization without beginning or end.
Please take care.
OceanofPDF.com

NOTES
INTRODUCTION
1. Here, I should point out, for technical readers, that I am equating
Wholeness and Spirit very carefully. I do not, for example, mean
pantheism (which equates the sum total of the manifest universe with
spirit). I am using Wholeness in the general sense that Nagarjuna in the
East used Emptiness and Plotinus in the West the One—in either case,
the emphasis is on the radically unqualifiable nature of ultimate reality
(which would include that definition as well). As Nagarjuna put it, “It
can be called neither ‘Void’ nor ‘not Void,’ but in order to point it out, it
is called the ‘Void.’” The point, for both of them, is that words,
concepts, and symbols just won’t work when it comes to knowing
ultimate Reality. Instead, one must have a direct and immediate
experience (not an explanation) of it in order to truly know it. There is a
general agreement on this by the mystics worldwide, East and West.
There is also a general agreement among the most sophisticated
mystics that this realization is of a reality that is deeply nondual or
“not-two,” where the “not two” means—to the extent that it can be put
into words (which is not very much)—that there is a nonduality, a
“oneness,” or a “wholeness” of infinite and finite, subject and object,
formless and form, unmanifest and manifest, spirit and matter, heaven
and earth, nirvana and samsara, good and evil. This nonduality applies
to any other pairs of opposites you want to mention (with ultimate
reality remaining “not-two,” a coincidentia oppositorum, a unity of
opposites). They are said to be unified or “One Taste” because we are
after a Ground of All Being, and “All Being” means exactly that—
namely, all of existence and being and nonexistence and nonbeing.

Absolutely everything is included, all of it is radically embraced, and
that can’t be fully known by any words, no matter which ones we
choose, but only by a direct awakening and realization of this radically
all-inclusive, nondual “wholeness.” This could be called a
“panentheism”—except that is just a word or concept also, and thus it
also falls into the category of explanation not direct experience (which
is also why I put wholeness in scare quotes). In this book, we’ll be
going through exercises together that will directly show you this
immediate experience of “wholeness” so you can see all of this for
yourself.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 1

CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION TO WAKING UP
1. The term Kosmos (as in “Kosmic consciousness”) is a Greek word that
means “the entire world”—matter, body, mind, soul, and spirit—which
is what a real Kosmic consciousness is actually one with. After the
reduction of the world to matter by scientific materialism, it was
replaced by the term cosmos, which means just the material world.
Since matter was then thought to be the only reality, cosmos itself came
to mean all of reality. Thus, Kosmic consciousness came to be spelled
cosmic consciousness. I will sometimes use that spelling too—as I did
the first time I used that term—especially if I don’t have room for a
note like this, which explains what Kosmic consciousness really means.
Needless to say, what we want is Kosmic consciousness, not merely
cosmic consciousness.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 1

2. Jordan Peterson, transcript of a YouTube talk, “Biblical Series VIII:
The Phenomenology of the Divine,” last accessed June 6, 2023,
https://www.jordanbpeterson.com/transcripts/biblical-series-viii/.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 2

3. Jordan Peterson.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 3

4. You can find extensive treatments of these stages in the work of
researchers such as Daniel P. Brown and Dustin DiPerna, as well as in
my own work.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 4

5. Ludwig Wittgenstein, Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus (Mineola, NY:
Dover Publications, 1998), prop. 6.4311.

BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 5

6. Erwin Schrödinger, My View of the World (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press, 1964), 22.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 6

CHAPTER 2: WHY DO WE NEED GROWING UP?
1. Some psychologists dislike the idea of multiple intelligences. If so,
that’s not a problem; you can simply think of them as different skills or
capacities—which no psychologist objects to—and it doesn’t change
what I’m saying in any way. The development of those capacities
unfolds in stages, and those stages are what I’m describing.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 1

2. Different developmental models track somewhat different sets of
intelligences, and many of them focus on a specific intelligence (for
example, Piaget focused on cognitive development, Kohlberg on
morals, Loevinger on ego development, Graves on values, Maslow on
needs, and so on). Depending on which metrics or measuring systems
is used, you will get a somewhat different percentage of the population
at a given level. This is fine, and it reflects the reality that different
developmental lines often reach different developmental levels. The
metrics I am using here—although I could have used any one of them
—is that given by Robert Kegan, in In Over Our Heads (Cambridge,
MA: Harvard University Press, 1994). His research indicates that fewer
than 3 in 5 people reach the modern (orange) stage of development—
that is, less than 60 percent.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 2

CHAPTER 4: SPIRITUAL INTELLIGENCE VERSUS SPIRITUAL
EXPERIENCE
1. It is true that some people use the term spiritual intelligence in a very
broad way, which includes a vague combination of both Waking Up
and Growing Up. It is truly fine to define spiritual intelligence any way
that you wish, and I do not doubt the sincerity or wisdom of those who
define it that way. But I say “vague” because although they might be
pointing directly to a real Waking Up in Spirit, virtually none of them
include any understanding of the stages of Growing Up, which severely
hobbles their view. So, in my definition, I am specifically
differentiating between the degree of Waking Up (pure spiritual
experience) and the level of Growing Up (spiritual intelligence), so that
we can clearly and openly include both.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 1

2. And experience is not really the best word here, since all experiences
unfold in time and most have a subject-object duality, but Awakening
has neither. It’s more a direct realization or recognition of something
that is already fully present in a nondual or unified way—an awakening
to a Reality that underlies every experience but is not itself an
experience. It’s more like the “clearing” in which all experience arises
and falls. But I’ll often use the word experience for this realization
since it at least indicates the immediateness and nonconceptual nature
of this awareness.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 2

3. See Ken Wilber, Quantum Questions (Boston: Shambhala Publications,
2001).
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 3

4. Although these structures exist inside the interior or 1st-person reality
of an individual—what we technically call “zone 2”—they still cannot
be seen by looking within (which is true of all zone-2 structures). We
say that they are objective realities because they are universally true for
all subjective individuals (that is, they provide an objective view of
subjective structures).
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 4

CHAPTER 5: THE EARLY STAGES OF GROWING UP
1. As I noted, different models give a different number of levels or stages
(in both Growing Up and Waking Up), depending upon the granularity
that they are aiming for. In Growing Up, some models present 4 or 5
levels, others give 7 to 9, yet others give a dozen or more. The most
common range, as I’ve indicated, is 6-to-8. My own Metatheory gives
upward of 16 stages, and again that number varies depending upon how
much detail is required. To see what’s involved in this, take the
ethnocentric stage, for example; generally, there is indeed a stage that
has the qualities described in the text for that general stage. But that
stage can be subdivided into 2, 3, 4, or even more substages; all of
these divisions are accurate and all of them are based on evidence.
Most often, I will present 8–12 stages. In this book, I’ve settled on 6
major stages, which represent 8 stages, as I explain below, with 2 of the
6 stages actually being a condensation of 2 stages, which gives in total
8 stages overall. These 6 stages are the most basic and most common,
they tally with Fowler’s research, and they convey virtually all the
important information that needs to be presented in the shortest amount
of space. In The Religion of Tomorrow (Boston: Shambhala
Publications, 2017), I presented 13 stages; in Integral Psychology, 16
stages. All of them are accurate, because the stages given exist and
have abundant evidence supporting their postulation—it’s simply a
matter of desired detail.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 1

2. Alfred North Whitehead, Process and Reality: An Essay in Cosmology,
ed. David Ray Griffin and Donald W. Sherburne (New York: Free
Press, 1978), 28.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 2

3. 3. William Blake, The Marriage of Heaven and Hell (Garden City, NY:
Dover Publications, 1994).
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 3

4. Let me get a few technical points out of the way. As I mentioned, I
have often combined two stages into a single stage. Thus, Graves finds
two stages (magical animistic and egocentric), as does Loevinger
(impulsive and self protective), whereas Maslow and Selman both have
just one (safety and egocentric, respectively). This situation reflects
virtually every developmental model in existence. In Integral
Psychology, where I gave a meta analysis of over one hundred
developmental models, the total number of stages in those models
ranges from 4 to over 20. The average number is around 6 to 8 (my
own metamodel in that book gave 16 stages, which is the most I felt
there was believable evidence for). My view is that there is a single,
very broad morphogenetic field of development, and virtually all of
these models are tapping into different aspects or levels of that field.
Thus, all of them have some truths to offer—but those truths are “true
but partial.” Also, most of those models did not address the same line
of development or type of intelligence (Piaget focused on cognitive
development, Kohlberg on moral development, Loevinger on ego
development, Maslow on needs development, Graves on values
development, and so on). That doesn’t mean one of those models is
right and all the others are wrong; it might indeed be that all are “true
but partial”; it might be that they are all plugging into this broad
morphogenetic field, and this field expresses itself differently in
different lines; and even the same line can be looked at in different
ways.
So you should not be too worried that different models give a
different number of stages of development. We’ve already seen a
simplified, 4-stage model (egocentric, ethnocentric, worldcentric, and
integral), and that simplified model is still very accurate. It still covers
a complete spectrum of Growing Up in ways that are quite correct. It’s

just a matter of detail. For example, take Jean Gebser’s stages (tweaked
as archaic, magic, mythic, rational, pluralistic, integral). There is
compelling evidence, from different researchers, that there are actually
major stages that exist between every one of those stages (that is,
archaic magic, magic mythic, mythic rational, rational pluralistic,
pluralistic integral). I have written about every one of those in-between
stages. Nonetheless, I often find that Gebser’s 6 stages cover many of
the most important points. It’s a matter of detail—the more detail, the
more complicated the model. The question then becomes how much
detail is needed to make the points I am trying to make in a particular
book.
I mention all of this because if you are familiar with Integral
Metatheory, you know that I have at times presented different numbers
of the stages of development (4, 6, 10, 13, 16). The stage we’re
addressing now (red magic-power) is one that I usually present as two
stages, which you can see in the list above (magenta impulsive-magic
and red magic-mythic power, which I’ve also often called “magic” and
“magic mythic”). Here, I’m combining them, and just to be clear, I’m
using the typical name of one stage (magic) and the typical color of the
other stage (red); the actual color of the magic stage is magenta.
But right now, we are simply discussing the 6 most common stages
of human development and evolution, or Growing Up in general, and
the Growing Up of spiritual intelligence in particular.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 4

5. Note that when I speak of these early characteristics, I mean them to
apply to the original indigenous populations some fifty to one hundred
thousand years ago, and not to any of today’s indigenous tribes, which
have continued to significantly evolve. These early magic stages do
apply to individuals in today’s indigenous cultures insofar as each
individual, no matter what culture they are born in, will experience
these magic stages in the first few years of their own early
development, since everybody goes through all the stages of Growing

Up, starting at square one. But unlike the original human cultures,
which were at this magic stage, today’s indigenous tribes can continue
to grow and develop into higher levels of consciousness and culture—
mythic, rational, pluralistic, and so on—which none of the original
tribes had access to, because those further stages had not yet emerged.
But any individual today—no matter what their culture—to the extent
that their awareness remains significantly stuck at this early magic
stage, will indeed demonstrate the basic (magical) characteristics that
we are describing here. And, as we earlier noted, this may result in
some very serious, preneurotic, emotional problems, as well as various
purely magical and superstitious religious beliefs.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 5

6. The Kosmic Address of a holon is the coordinates of all its AQAL
elements, where AQAL stands for “all quadrants, all levels, all lines, all
states, all types,” which are, respectively, involved in Showing Up,
Growing Up, Opening Up, and Waking Up. These coordinates give the
holon’s “location” or “address” in the overall Kosmos. Since the
multiverse has no fundamental center, there is no way to say where any
holon is located, except by indicating its relation to all other holons,
and that’s what the Kosmic Address does.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 6

7. C. G. Jung, Analytical Psychology: Its Theory and Practice (New York:
Vintage, 1970), 110.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 7

8. Since both states and structures are presented here as stages in
development, they are technically “state-stages” and “structure-stages.”
States do not necessarily appear in stages, since they can be “peak
experienced” in almost any order—for example, a person can be in the
gross state and have a peak experience of turiya, since all these states
are ever-present (everybody wakes, dreams, and sleeps). Structures, on

the other hand, always appear in stages, since they have to be
constructed one at a time—a person cannot, for example, be at moral
stage 2 and have a peak experience of moral stage 5. This explains an
enormous amount about spiritual awareness, as we will see.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 8

9. There are a few higher cells available to humans, since there are a few
higher stages of Growing Up—briefly indicated by the super-integral
row in figure 5.3—and there might also be higher states of Waking Up
revealed by evolution down the road, but neither are widespread
enough today to affect hardly anyone, which is why I’m not
emphasizing them.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 9

10. Roger Walsh, The World of Shamanism (Woodbury, MN: Llewellyn
Publications, 2007).
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 10

CHAPTER 6: THE MYTHIC-LITERAL (OR AMBER) STAGE
1. Clare Graves and Spiral Dynamics describe this stage as “saintly,” in
addition to “absolutistic.” The word saintly accurately reflects the
religion that comes from the mythic, fundamentalist nature of this
amber stage of development. But Graves thought that almost all
spirituality comes from this stage because he was completely ignorant
of Waking Up as the real core of spirituality. He equated all spirituality
with one of the lowest levels of spiritual intelligence, the mythic level
of spiritual intelligence (in Growing Up), ignoring the unity of spiritual
experience (in Waking Up). Thus he missed the essence of real
spirituality, which includes a genuine Waking Up, and a Waking Up
interpreted by stages of spiritual intelligence that are two or three levels
higher than the mythic-literal (for example, rational, pluralistic, and
integral). In all of these ways, Graves and Spiral Dynamics butcher
spirituality.
Now that wasn’t Graves’s fault. It’s pretty much what every
educated Westerner believes (namely, all spirituality is a type of
fundamentalist religion and therefore comes from this mythic stage),
which is the disaster of spirituality in the modern and postmodern
world and something that any authentic Religion of Tomorrow would
immediately rectify.
But it is true that fundamentalist and the mythic-literal aspects of
any religion or spirituality do come from this stage. And Graves
correctly called this stage “absolutistic,” because this stage is certain
that it possesses the absolute truth, whether that truth is religious or not.
Most people speaking about religion indeed are talking about this
mythic stage, and thus the many varieties of spiritual realities all get
collapsed and reduced to just this low level of Growing Up. So it’s
totally understandable that Graves would also call this stage “saintly.”
But when we distinguish Waking Up from Growing Up—and recognize
the many higher stages of spiritual intelligence (rational, pluralistic,

and integral)—we allow each religion to drop its absolutistic
fundamentalism and instead expand to its truer, deeper, higher
dimensions. Then this saintly stage of Graves’s system would no longer
apply to all religions but only to those that hadn’t continued to grow
and evolve past this early amber mythic stage.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 1

CHAPTER 7: THE MODERN-RATIONAL (OR ORANGE) STAGE
1. Mary-Alice Jafolla and Richard Jafolla, The Simple Truth (Unity
Village, MO: Unity, 1999).
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 1

2. This can be a useful exercise. Since every stage of development
“transcends and includes” its previous stage, there are some profound
“true but partial” truths to be found in the previous mythic stage, and
development is a slow addition of the “true but partial” truths of each
stage. Each stage of development interacts with and interprets its world
in distinctive ways—which is what the mythic stage does when it
interprets its world in mythic ways, which indeed are very literal. When
these “true but partial” truths are subsequently interpreted by the next
stage’s rationality, they are, in turn, interpreted in rational ways.
These are indeed interpretations that make sense to rationality, but
those truths didn’t start in rational forms; they started in mythic-literal
forms. Nonetheless, a true-but-partial mythic truth is still a partial truth,
and when it is interpreted in higher rational forms, it can be useful
(simply because development is the sum total of all the partial truths
accumulated at all the stages of development, since each stage
“transcends and includes”). Thus, if a higher, rational interpretation of a
lower mythic truth is done in a careful, profound, and well-thought-out
fashion, it can be useful to individuals who are themselves at that
higher, rational level—especially if you don’t confuse that rational
interpretation with the original form or meaning of the myth itself. This
is especially the case when it comes to various “existential truths,”
truths that tend to be true for all individuals at any stage of
development (although they will be interpreted differently at each
stage). Thus, a truth such as man is born in the image of God is a
profound, existential truth, but it will have the meaning that it had at
the mythic stage—that is, the word God means a mythic God at the

mythic stage. At a rational stage, it is still an existential truth that man
is born in the image of God, but God now means a rational, universal,
worldcentric being, which is not exactly what it meant during the
mythic stage. For example, in Genesis, right after God claims that all
humans are born in his image, this assertion isn’t given a truly universal
meaning—in fact, in the books following Genesis, God recommends
slavery, murder, genocide, rape, and all sorts of other ethnocentric
actions. That’s not an orange God; that’s an amber God. Thus, there is
always some slippage of existential truth between the stages. (Note that
rational truth itself will be reinterpreted by higher, vision-logic, integral
stages of development and translated into integral terms and will suffer
the same problems.) In the text, I am giving an Integral interpretation of
the rational interpretation of the meaning of myth.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 2

3. C. G. Jung, Analytical Psychology: Its Theory and Practice (New York:
Vintage, 1970), 110.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 3

4. Turiya, or the 4th state, is not the highest state, which is the 5th state or
turiyatita, and this is for a good reason: turiya is actually not
completely unqualifiable. It is the home of the very first dualisms that
mark the beginning of the manifest realm, a realm that, if seen apart
from Spirit, is nothing but illusion, maya, shadows on the cave wall.
The Traditions maintain that turiya or the Witness is the home of the
very first dualism, which is the subject-object duality, and even though
it is an Absolute Subjectivity that contains relative subjects and relative
objects, it still stands apart from that realm and Witnesses it as a radical
Subjectivity or Individuality. Integral Metatheory adds that it is also the
home of the second major dualism, the individual-collective duality),
and these two dualities give rise to the 4 quadrants. So turiya or the
Witness is indeed an absolute or ultimate state, but it is tinged with
Subjectivity (and Individuality) and this prevents it from being the

highest state—turiyatita, which goes beyond both of those dualities and
is purely Nondual. But for most practical purposes, turiya is
unqualifiable and is certainly radically All-Inclusive, and thus it is
included as one of the two major “ultimate states.”
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 4

5. That Buddhism is a “rational religion” is the reason why so many smart
modern and postmodern people—in Silicon Valley, for example—have
adopted Buddhism and its mindfulness practices; there are no
embarrassing myths to have to live with. Even the prominent New
Atheist Sam Harris, who seems to loathe all mythic-literal religions,
has himself practiced Buddhist meditation for three decades and has
even written a book about it called Waking Up, a fact his admirers
always seem to forget.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 5

6. Pantheism is a spiritual worldview that equates the sum total of the
manifest universe with Spirit or God/Goddess, often viewed as a “Great
Web of Life.” This viewpoint is commonly adopted by spiritual
intelligence once a mythic view has been rejected—that is, when the
mythic God is rejected, a spiritual Nature often takes its place. This
also allows believers to use leading-edge sciences (such as quantum
mechanics and systems theory) to bolster their spiritual worldview. For
pantheism, salvation tends to be equated with holism, and an alienated
and “sinful” life is equated with fragmentation and fracture—so to see
the totality of Reality as a unified Wholeness is the general aim of
pantheism.
Most theologically oriented thinkers strongly reject pantheism
because it makes no reference to the completely unmanifest, infinite,
groundless Ground of All Being, where infinite for these critics means
not just the sum total of finite things but something truly beyond the
finite—that is, something truly infinite and transcendent. In short,
pantheism has no room for, or no acknowledgment of, causal

Formlessness or turiya Emptiness or turiyatita Nonduality. It has no
truly transcendental Spirit, only an immanent Spirit. Thus, according to
these critics, pantheism has no access to any transcendence of (or
freedom from) any of the inadequacies of the manifest universe. Since
a pantheistic Spirit is itself the sum total of the manifest universe, it can
offer no liberation from it.
In contradistinction to pantheism, those who wish to include both a
transcendent and an immanent Spirit often call their view
“panentheism,” with the added “en” meaning “in.” Thus the term
means “God in all” or “all in God.” I agree with the general points of
this panentheistic view, but with one major caveat: one can believe or
think that panentheism is true whether or not one has had a real Waking
Up to that ultimate Reality. You can be at orange spiritual intelligence
and embrace the philosophical view of panentheism without ever
having the slightest Waking Up experience at all, and that difference
definitely needs to be remembered. Thus, once one has had a genuine
Waking Up, then one’s spiritual intelligence can use a panentheistic (or
evolutionary panentheistic or, even better, an Integral panentheistic)
interpretation of that Waking Up reality as a very adequate
interpretation, especially when one is oneself coming from turquoise
Integral or higher.
Another way to state the difference between pantheism and
panentheism is to point out that pantheism has no Waking Up anywhere
in it. It includes only Growing Up, Opening Up, Cleaning Up, and
Showing Up. They are all relative truths, taken entirely from the finite,
relative realm (which pantheism equates with its Spirit). None of them
includes an ultimate Truth—which is what Waking Up does. So I fully
agree with pantheism when it comes to relative truth; but it has no
Waking Up to an infinite ultimate Truth of a Ground of All Being, and
that’s where I (and most critics) have to get off. In other words, I agree
with its partial truth; it just doesn’t go far enough for a more complete,
and indeed more whole and comprehensive, Truth—that is,
panentheism.

BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 6

7. Alfred North Whitehead, Process and Reality: An Essay in Cosmology,
ed. David Ray Griffin and Donald W. Sherburne (New York: Free
Press, 1978), 28.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 7

8. Peirce was a contemporary of William James, and after he invented the
philosophy of pragmatism, James immediately borrowed the term and
became one of its leading champions. Peirce wasn’t exactly happy with
how James was handling this, however, and he was a little upset with
James’s “borrowing” his ideas, so he changed the name of his own
philosophy from “pragmatism” to “pragmaticism,” which he said was
“a word so ugly as to discourage theft.”
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 8

CHAPTER 8: THE POSTMODERN-PLURALISTIC (OR GREEN)
STAGE
1. Clare Graves said of this transition that “an unbelievable chasm of
meaning is crossed” and that it was a “momentous leap,” which I in
turn paraphrase as “a monumental leap in meaning.”
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 1

CHAPTER 9: THE INCLUSIVE-INTEGRAL (OR TURQUOISE)
STAGE
1. By “leading edge of evolution,” I mean two general but slightly
different things. First, a stage constitutes the leading edge of cultural
evolution when 10 percent or more of the culture’s population is at that
stage. When 10 percent of the population reach a cultural stage of
evolution, a tipping point occurs, and that leading edge’s values tend to
be absorbed throughout the culture—and so this stage is often
responsible for the name given to the era in which this shift occurs. For
example, this happened when 10 percent of the culture reached orange
reason—“The Age of Reason”—and it also happened when 10 percent
of the culture reached green postmodernism—“The Postmodern Age.”
Second, I use “leading edge” to mean the highest stage yet reached
by Growing Up itself, which is actually leading evolution before it
reaches 10 percent of the population. So in today’s culture, green is the
cultural leading edge in the first sense (with some 23–25 percent of the
population at green), and Integral (as turquoise cross-paradigmatic) is
the leading edge in the second sense, with some 0.5–2.0 percent of the
population at Integral.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 1

2. Hanzi Freinacht, The Listening Society—A Metamodern Guide to
Politics, Book One (n.p.: Metamoderna, 2017), 181.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 2

3. Freinacht, 182.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 3

4. Thus, when we say that the only correct answer to “What is Spirit?” or
“Does God exist?” is “Get satori and find out,” that statement is true
enough. When it comes to those questions, for “get satori,” we can

substitute any number of “pointing-out instructions,” since these are
descriptions of things you can do in order to directly experience Spirit
or ultimate Unity consciousness yourself (that is, have a direct satori
yourself, and thus move from “metaphoric” words to direct
experience). This is exactly the approach we will be taking later in this
book, when we will be going over a set of pointing-out instructions.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 4

CHAPTER 10: CLEANING UP AND SHADOW THERAPY
1. Let me just mention that there are a few types of shadow material that
are not created by the 1-2-3 dissociative process and that therefore are
not really helped by the 3-2-1 process. Shadow material formed at the
extreme ends of the developmental spectrum are examples of this. For
example, some early shadow material doesn’t involve material getting
pushed to the other side of the self-boundary but rather involves
problems that develop in the original formation of the self-boundary
itself—for example, borderline and narcissistic disorders. These require
specialized and usually professional treatment and isn’t something you
can do on your own, in any event. But these problems are also
relatively rare; the chances are very high that any significant shadow
issues you have are from the levels for which the 3-2-1 process works
quite well. And keep in mind that this is just one technique; you will
most likely want to combine it with any number of other shadow-work
practices. But this 3-2-1 practice is a particularly effective technique,
and if you do only this, it will help enormously.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 1

2. You can also generate shadow material at higher stages of Growing Up,
particularly if you have problems with a new level as it is starting to
emerge—perhaps orange, green, or even integral. It’s fairly common
for people to project their orange or green qualities; but in any case,
follow the same instructions that I am outlining here.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 2

3. I arrived at this process not by understanding the actual words that
Freud used (“Where ‘it’ was, there ‘I’ shall become”), although that
helped, but by analyzing every published transcript of Fritz Perls’s
therapy sessions. Perls was a big star at the Esalen Institute, where he
held workshops using a therapeutic process that he invented called

“Gestalt Therapy.” This technique was incredibly effective—and
worked unbelievably fast. Perls famously claimed, “I can cure any
neurosis in fifteen minutes.” The wild thing is, that was close to
accurate; even many of his critics agreed—Perls was an absolute genius
at therapy.
So I got all of the transcripts of his sessions and went through them,
looking for clues. I found that in almost every case, Perls did exactly
the same thing: he would have the person describe their complaint in
3rd-per-son terms (for example, they hated their boss, had problems
with their spouse, had huge anxiety, black depression, uncontrollable
obsession). Then he had them put the problem in the empty chair and
directly talk to it as a 2nd-person “you.” Back and forth they would go,
and within ten or fifteen minutes, it was apparent to everybody in the
room which 1st-person items they were dissociating and disowning to
create their neurosis, and in nine out of ten cases, there was an
unmistakable and large diminution of their symptoms. I finally
recognized the process that he was following (I don’t think he explicitly
understood it), and I wrote up an academic paper on it as the “3-2-1
process.” That was forty years ago; the article was my first published
piece in an official peer-reviewed journal. It described a general
process, but as general therapeutic processes go, I still have not found a
better one.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 3

4. More specifically, it is the negative side of Cleaning Up, where you
take something that is broken and fix or heal it; the positive side of
Cleaning Up includes “positive psychology,” where you don’t fix what
is broken but you take something that is already working and
strengthen it, making it even better. Cleaning Up includes both positive
and negative aspects—the negative aspects almost always being the
most urgent, and hence the ones we are focusing on here.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 4

CHAPTER 11: SHOWING UP
1. The “we” is actually the 1st person plural. Since it always contains a
2nd person “you,” I often combine them. I explain this more fully
below in this chapter, in the section titled “The Quadrants in Everyday
Life.”
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 1

2. If this is so, does that mean no form of afterlife existence is possible,
including any form of reincarnation, because the material dimension is
left behind at death? No, not totally. Remember that virtually all of the
traditions maintain that any afterlife state of consciousness is
accompanied by a subtle body, a body made of subtle energy (or subtle
matter/energy—some form of Right-hand quadrant reality). As for
subtle energy, it always exists in a spectrum of forms (from gross to
subtle to causal, where causal means the “very subtlest of subtle
energies”), and all states of consciousness have some sort of correlate
in this subtle-energy spectrum and are always accompanied by it (every
Left-hand event has some sort of Right-hand correlate). Like its grosslevel forms, this subtle energy, at all its levels, is always perceived as
being exterior or objective to consciousness. Any transmaterial state of
consciousness, such as an out-of-the-body experience, is accomplished
in some sort of subtle body. Thus, consciousness is always embodied
(at gross, subtle, or causal levels—every Left-hand event has a Righthand or matter/energy correlate). So if you happen to believe in
something like reincarnation, remember that my claim that
matter/energy accompanies every state of consciousness can easily
mean that some subtle form of matter/energy accompanies it. The
diagram of the 4 quadrants can show not only gross matter/energy
correlates but all the subtle and causal matter/energy correspondences
(at all the different levels of the subtle-energy spectrum). Thus, it’s still

true that every Left-hand event has some form of Right-hand or
material correlate (gross, subtle, or causal).
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 2

3. As for ultimate Spirit itself—with a capital S—it is not found in any
quadrant in figure 11.2 or 11.3 but rather is loosely represented by the
paper on which the diagram of the quadrant is placed. The paper
metaphorically represents the Ground of All Being, or that Reality that
is fully present “underneath” or “in” each and every holon in the
diagram. The quadrants are found in relative, finite reality; the Ground
of Being is ultimate infinite Reality—or their Nondual Wholeness or
Suchness. This will become clearer as we proceed.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 3

4. That is, all the cells in their bodies—except the sex cells—have XY
chromosomes.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 4

5. In figure 11.1, you might notice “SF1,” “SF2,” and “SF3” in the
highest layers in the Upper Right. This represents a series of higher
“structure-functions” (which are holons) in the brain structure, and is
essentially a generalization of the Eros or self-organizing drive of the
Kosmos (which itself appears in all 4 quadrants). That is, according to
Whitehead, the 3 “ultimate principles”—or what you need to begin
with, in order to get a universe up and running—are first, “the One”;
second, “the Many”; and the third, which is the most interesting, “the
creative advance into novelty.” Since virtually all phenomena are
holons—a whole/part or a one/many—the first two principles (the one
and the many) both involve the reality of holons, so the existence of
holons is covered. Whitehead further maintains that each moment of
existence consists of a past moment being prehended by (or included
in) the present moment (this is causality in Whitehead’s system), and
the present moment being prehended by the upcoming future moment

—each moment, in other words, transcends and includes the previous
moment (the drive behind this transcendence is what Integral calls
“Eros”). This is how and why the universe actually hangs together. The
SF series is simply a series of brain structure-functions, and like all
phenomena, they transcend and include their predecessor, with
increasing degrees of complexity. The SF series also represents the idea
that there is a subtle energy at work in all living organisms, and so
within a single gross-physical brain structure (like the neo-cortex), a
series of many subtler, higher, bioenergies can and will all exist. And
finally, the SF series represents an increase in real Wholeness—each of
which “transcends and includes”—which is true of the entire sequence
of reptilian to mammalian to primate holons—and can especially be
seen in things like the hemispheric synchronization of the brain, a
holistic state if ever there was one.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 5

CHAPTER 12: OPENING UP
1. Many cognitive neuroscientists see IQ as the only basic intelligence
that we have (and that tends to cover two basic intelligences—cognitive
and verbal), but even they admit that it covers only 25 percent of
overall intelligence. I agree with them on the importance of IQ and that
it covers at least 25 percent of our overall intelligence. I also accept that
the standard IQ test is the most accurate test found in all of psychology.
They often add that if you do a factor-analysis test on the various
multiple intelligences that have been proposed, what shows up most
consistently is just some version of IQ(or again, around 25 percent of
it). This is fine. If you do a factor-analysis test on the dozen or so types
of intelligences, you usually get just some variation of IQ (as cognitive
and verbal).
But that doesn’t define or even describe the differences between a
mental state of aesthetic value and one of emotional value, moral value,
or spiritual value, or the differences between any of other multiple
intelligences. These cognitive neuroscientists tend to confuse a simple
capacity or skill with an actual intelligence (such as a moral capacity
with a moral intelligence). Probably they do this because the phrase
multiple intelligences leads these researchers to believe that these
multiple intelligences are directly competing with IQ—and, I agree, if
you do that, they will all reduce to IQ when tested. So, as I mentioned,
if you have problems with the idea of multiple intelligences, you can
simply think of them as multiple capacities, skills, or perspectives.
Whatever you take to be the difference between morals, aesthetics,
music, emotions, spirituality, and so on—just those actual differences
are what I mean when I refer to multiple intelligences.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 1

CHAPTER 13: VERY DARK SHADOWS TODAY
1. For an inside look at this crisis, see Ernest R. May and Philip D
Zelikow, eds., The Kennedy Tapes: Inside the White House During the
Cuban Missile Crisis (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press,
1997). A film based on that book was made—Thirteen Days—starring
Kevin Costner and Bruce Greenwood, which is quite good and highly
recommended. It conveys beautifully the brutally nerve-racking
insanity of the whole situation.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 1

2. Umber mythic-rational is the name of an advanced ethnocentric stage
of development, lying between the amber stage and the orange rationaluniversal stage. Umber is marked by the fact that mythic ideas, when
they are first touched by universal-rational drives, attempt to become
universal, usually via military expansion into empires, and it continues
its influence as these empires evolve into early nation-states. It is also
usually marked by the rationalization of mythic structures, for example,
each of the Greek city-states had its own gods (which Socrates was
killed for allegedly not accepting). As its name implies, umber mythicrational is what happens when orange universal rationality starts
thinking about amber mythic realities. (In this explanation, I have
generally followed Habermas.) Similarly, in terms of “in-between
structures,” when it comes to magic-mythic—the stage between magic
proper and mythic—the red stage is a structure lying midway between
magenta magic and amber mythic and is marked by mythic thinking
that includes magic realities.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 2

3. Robert Kegan, a brilliant developmentalist at the Harvard Graduate
School of Education, has done extensive research that indicates that in
the United States “3 out of 5 people fail to reach the modern [orange]

stage of development”—or around 60 percent of the population fails to
adequately reach universal-global stages (Kegan, In Over Our Heads).
That level is slightly higher in the worldwide population, in which 60
to 70 percent do not reach the global levels, than it is in the United
States,.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 3

4. Just how serious the climate crisis is depends on which experts you
consult. To give an example that is very counterintuitive—at least for
people who think that humanity has only twelve more years left to live
—if we consult the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,
the UN panel comprising the very best experts in climate science and
that is responsible for the Paris Climate Accords, for example), their
published assessment is that, yes, global warming is real, it is caused by
humans, and it is ongoing. But how serious is it? According to the
IPCC, the actual cost to the world of global warming will be, by 2050,
between 0.2 and 2.0 percent of the global GDP. Wow, less than 2
percent. That hardly sounds like a huge catastrophe. But that is the
conclusion of the UN’s IPCC, which is taken to be the ultimate
consulting body for the climate crisis. But even if this means that we
have considerably more time than twelve years left to live, the climate
crisis is still due to a global worldcentric technology in the Right Hand
coupled with a less-than-adequate (less-than-global) response in the
Left Hand, which is my major point here.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 4

5. Robert Kegan and Lisa Laskow Lahey, An Everyone Culture (Boston:
Harvard Business Review Press, 2016), 242.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 5

6. Kegan and Laskow Lahey, 161.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 6

7. See Alan Watkins and Ken Wilber, Wicked and Wise: How to Solve the
World’s Toughest Problems (Chatham, UK: Urbane Publications, 2015).
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 7

8. In the cognitive line, the emergence of orange brings the capacity to be
aware of systems, and hence this marked the first worldcentric or
global stage in humanity’s development, with intense interest in things
like universal rights and the system of Nature. Green brings a higher
stage of “metasystemic” awareness, or “systems of systems.” This gave
green the capacity to reflect on the orange systems of modernity and
take a critical attitude toward them, which marked the emergence of
postmodernity. The emergence of Integral 2nd tier brings the possibility
of “systems of systems of systems,” which gives Integral its incredible
capacities (para digmatic and cross-paradigmatic) that include being so
widely comprehensive, inclusive, and integrated.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 8

9. I’m not unduly worried by some forms of wealth inequality. For
example, when Steve Jobs “invented” the personal computer, he
became a billionaire, but he didn’t become a billionaire by stealing
money from, say, the local farmer—in fact, Jobs likely helped the
farmer, by using a computer, make more money. Because people are
born with a diversity of capacities and interests, a totally equal outcome
for all can be had only by repressing the diversity, so various forms of
diversity and inequality naturally come with the territory. But at some
point, the sheer size of the thing can take on a life of its own and
become, just in itself, an evil. For me, that line was crossed when just
five people on the planet ended up owning the same amount as owned
by the poorest 50 percent of the world.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 9

CHAPTER 14: THE NIGHTMARE OF MODERNITY
1. Arthur Lovejoy, The Great Chain of Being (Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press), 26.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 1

2. Lovejoy, 184.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 2

3. Lovejoy, 211.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 3

4. Pascal, quoted in Lovejoy, The Great Chain of Being, 128.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 4

CHAPTER 15: WAKING UP
1. Technically, you are not actually of the same substance as the Total
Painting, because the Total Painting could disappear completely into a
purely formless unmanifest state, and if so, then you would be fully one
with that state, even though the Total Painting is objectively gone.
Identifying the Total Painting of manifestation with ultimate Reality is
pantheism; this is nondualism. But this Total Painting, since it is always
present in the waking state, is where you want to begin—fully
Witnessing it is the first step.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 1

2. Schrödinger, My View of the World (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press, 1964), 22.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 2

3. Wittgenstein, Tractatus, prop. 6.4311.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 3

4. Technically, turiyatita—nondual, awakened Awareness—is the one and
only ultimate state, and thus the only state that is always already the
case; but its knowing aspect (or turiya), as an intrinsic dimension of
nondual Awareness, is likewise always already the case. If that
knowing aspect is taken by itself, it appears as the Knower, the
Witness, the True Self—that is, it appears as a separate turiya, the 4th
state. Technically that is a minor step down from the 5th state, and it
could be conceived as therefore being a relative state, not an ultimate
one. But that knowing component is indeed an intrinsic component,
aspect, or dimension of nondual Awareness, and it is as ever-present as
the nondual Awareness itself, and thus the Traditions always count
turiya or the Witness as being an absolute or ultimate state, along with
turiyatita. But make no mistake, taken by itself, the Witness is not as

high as nondual Suchness or nondual One Taste. The truly ultimate
state is recognized when any sensation of a “self” (whether a capital S
Self or a small s self) disappears into the seamless unity of a nondual
Suchness, the Wholeness of Waking Up. But both the Witness and One
Taste (turiya and turiyatita) are counted as ultimate states, since the
fundamentals of both of them are indeed ever-present and all-inclusive.
The only reason they are separated is that turiya, precisely because it is
a Self-condition and not a fully Nondual condition, can be experienced
by itself, for example, in the state of the Witness, and most of the
earlier, pre-nondual spiritual traditions often took turiya as the highest
state that could be reached. When the Nondual traditions arose, they
realized—as usually happens—that the turiya state was an intrinsic part
of the turiyatita state (the knowing part), but that wasn’t realized as
long as one was aware of only turiya, which is what happened with all
of the pre-nondual traditions.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 4

CHAPTER 16: POINTING OUT THE WITNESS AND ONE TASTE
1. Erwin Schrödinger, What Is Life? Mind and Matter (Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press, 1967), 89.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 1

2. Douglas E. Harding, On Having No Head: Zen and the Rediscovery of
the Obvious (Carlsbad, CA: InnerDirections Publishing, 2002).
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 2

3. Chögyam Trungpa, Journey without Goal: The Tantric Wisdom of the
Buddha (Boston: Shambhala Publications, 1981), 136.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 3

CHAPTER 17: THE FEELINGS OF ENLIGHTENMENT
1. Abraham Maslow, Religions, Values, and Peak Experiences (New
York: Penguin, 1970), xi.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 1

CHAPTER 19: THE PRACTICE OF INTEGRAL SEXUAL TANTRA
1. You can find descriptions of these exercises in almost any decent text
on practical Tantra. I particularly recommend the works by David
Deida, all of which come straight from David’s own deeply realized
5th-stage Enlightenment.
BACK TO NOTE REFERENCE 1

OceanofPDF.com

INDEX
Note: Indexed page numbers from the original print edition have been
retained in this digital edition as a reference. Links on page numbers in the
index will take you to the beginning of the corresponding page from the
print edition. You may need to scroll forward from that location to find the
corresponding reference in the ebook edition.
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X
Y Z
A
absolute truth, 126, 128, 130, 137–38, 182, 222, 447–48n1
Adi Da, 396
adual (undifferentiated fusion state), 47, 48, 100, 102
Advaita Vedanta, 23–24, 25, 361
aesthetic intelligence, 43, 60, 72, 82, 94, 291, 292
afterlife, 454n2
agnosticism, 72, 78, 99, 155–56
akashic record, 157, 159, 214
Alder, Alfred, 226
Allen, Woody, 429
altered states, 152–54
animism, 109, 122
Apostle’s Creed, 3, 137, 350–51
AQAL Matrix, 110, 202, 255, 446n6
archaic-fusion (crimson) stage, 99–106
Archetypal mysticism, 112, 157, 159–60
archetypal state, 25, 157. See also causal state
Aristotle, 51, 141
artifacts, 282, 304, 308, 309–10, 311, 330, 335
Artificial Intelligence, 296, 297, 300, 301, 320
atheism, 72, 78, 93, 99, 109, 155–56. See also New Atheists
atomism, 283, 286, 288, 324, 337–40

Aurobindo, 97
Awakened Mind, 13, 30
Awakening, 6, 19, 23, 369
Christ and, 144–46, 149
direct realization of, 25–27, 71, 443n2
goal of, 13
possibility of, 161
See also Enlightenment; Waking Up
Awareness
Brown’s stage of, 24, 25
as ever present, 360–61
primordial, 353, 387–88, 390
pure, 25, 112–13, 114, 158, 353, 400
sexual feelings dispersed through, 423–26

B
belief systems, 1–3, 4–6, 7, 19, 76–77
Bible
Jefferson’s, 143
in mythic-literal stage, 81–82, 138, 150
in orange stage, 148
rational reading of, 151, 448n2
Big Bliss, 392–93
as detached, 427
in Integral sexual Tantra, 411–18
and small bliss, connection between, 407, 410–11, 415–17, 418, 424, 432
Big Love
as feeling of One Taste’s Fullness, 393, 394–97
in Integral tantric sex, 418–25
and small love, connection between, 407, 410–11, 420–24, 432
Big Mind, 24, 32, 387–88
Big Three, 254–55, 260–61, 326–27
Big Wholeness, 9, 69, 223, 224, 293, 433
benefits of, 16
and Big Meaning, in everyday life, 438–39
Cleaning Up and, 229
engaging in, 341–42
4 quadrants in, 288
immediate access to, 434
opening to, 74
room for everything in, 11, 15, 16
scientific materialism and, 57
turquoise stage and, 202–3, 204

types of Wholeness in, 36, 41–42
Waking Up and, 21
Bliss, 349, 367–68, 437
all-embracing, 389–90
as ever present, 347
as feeling of Freedom of Witness, 390–93, 429–30
See also Big Bliss; cognitive Blissfulness
Bliss-and-Love, simultaneous practice of, 397–98, 427–29
Blissful Love
all-embracing, 428–29, 430–31
relative bliss and love, relationship of, 410–11
Suchness of, 427
timelessness of, 395, 396–97
in ultimate states, 348
bodhisattva vow, 403
body
Blissful Love in, 396
demonization of, 215
in Integral Tantra, 410, 411–18
microcosmic orbit and, 410
as universe, 115
Bohm, David, 213
borderline disorders, 101–2
Borg, Marcus, 198
Brahman, nirguna and saguna, distinction between, 346–47
Brahmanical Hinduism, 404
brain, 265, 289, 329
holonic nature of, 280–81, 455n5
and mind, relationship of, 261–62
in mystical experiences, 265–66
neurophysiological view of, 280
scientific study of, 330
tantric exercises and, 409
triune, 258, 265, 269, 271
breathing exercises, 408–10
Brown, Daniel P., 24–25, 115, 359, 375, 378
Buber, Martin, 255
Buddhism, 4, 7, 162. See also Dzogchen Buddhism; early Buddhism; Mahayana Buddhism;
socially engaged Buddhism; Tibetan Buddhism; Vajrayana Buddhism; Yogachara Buddhism;
Zen Buddhism
business systems, 309–11, 314

C
Campbell, Joseph, 147, 148
capitalism, 299–300, 310–11
Capra, Fritjof, Tao of Physics, 214
care stage, 49–50, 64, 129
Cartesian dualism, 263
causal Formless state, 145, 156, 159, 161, 203, 362–63
causal state, 25, 27, 88–89, 112, 156–59, 362. See also dreamless state
celibacy, 215, 402
Christ consciousness, 4–5, 62, 64, 81, 144–45, 146, 149, 152, 197
Christianity, 3, 83
in amber stage, 137–38, 350–51
contemplative, 7, 24, 351
conveyor belt for, 136
evolution and, 171
fundamentalist, 79, 81–82, 85
Great Chain of Being in, 100–101, 264–65, 267, 271, 325
in green stage, 174, 196–99
liberation theology in, 195, 198
magic-mythic beliefs of, 5–6, 108–9, 122–23
mystic, 359, 364
mythic, declining interest in, 78
in orange stage, 146, 147–49, 163–64
religion vs. spirituality in, 4–5
spiritual intelligence in, 98–99
Trinity in, 255, 259
in turquoise stage, 204
Waking Up in, 81
Chuang Tzu, 406
Cleaning Up, 9, 223, 290, 343, 435–36, 437
importance of, 237, 252
positive and negative aspects, 454n4
as relative truth, 40–41
and Waking Up and Growing Up, relationship between, 228–30, 240
See also 3-2-1 process
climate crisis, 74, 309, 311, 312, 458n4. See also global warming
Cloud of Unknowing, 95, 112, 161, 197, 351
Cloud of Unknowing, 4
cognitive Blissfulness, 374, 391–92, 394, 412, 413, 414–17, 418
cognitive intelligence, 60, 75, 82, 94, 293
prioritization of, 43, 290–91, 456n1
questions of, 72, 292, 436
coincidence of opposites, 354

Commons, Michael, 97, 202
Commons and Richards, 107, 125, 141, 173, 200
consciousness, 19, 159, 203, 261
absolute, 91
access to, 119, 134
average states of, 18
brain and, 262
constant, 366
cosmic, 216–17 (see also Kosmic consciousness)
evolution of, 269
major states of, 116
and matter, relationship of, 266, 271–72, 329–30, 333–37
mystical, 111–12
ordinary states, Waking Up in, 27
singularity of, 373–74
spectrum of, 23–26
structures and states of, distinctions in, 45–46, 70, 75–76, 88–93
transhumanism and, 342–43
transmaterial state of, 454–55n2
two kinds, evidence of, 22
vertical transformation, 207, 211
See also Christ consciousness
Consciousness, 210, 259
Absolute, 112–13
empty, 162, 163
in Integral Tantra, 404, 409–10, 430
without object, 158, 162, 207
pure, 25, 163, 387–88
Consciousness-only mysticism, 112–13, 158
conveyor belt, 135–37, 151, 204, 205, 219–21, 222, 318–19
Cook-Greuter, Susanne, 96
Copernicus, 38, 225
cross-paradigmatic stage, 200, 202–3, 207, 452n1
Cuban Missile Crisis, 295–96, 300, 301, 311–12, 319
cultural evolution, 104–5, 168, 318, 452n1
green leading-edge of, 186–87, 235, 296
Integral leading-edge of, 192, 297
2nd tier leading-edge of, 201–2
culture
Integral understanding of, 274–77, 283–84
intersubjectivity in, 279–80
culture wars, 139, 172, 297
cure for, 192
green stage and, 186–88

integrating orange and green in, 178–79, 191
Left and Right in, 180
racism in, 306–7
transgender identity in, 272–73
cybercrime, 311, 312, 320

D
Damer, Bruce, 169
dark night of the soul, 114–15
Darwin, Charles, 38, 202, 225, 292
DDC (deliberately developmental culture), 315, 317, 318–19
DDO (deliberately developmental organization), 311, 314–15
death, intuition about, 32, 373
defense mechanisms, 230–31, 234, 236–37, 240, 242
Deity mysticism, 111–12, 116, 119, 128, 132–33, 138, 156, 197, 215, 402
democracy, 142, 184, 306, 321
Democratic Party, 184–85, 234, 236
depression, 243–44, 320, 346, 348, 371
Derrida, Jacques, 296
Descartes, René, 263, 333–34
Diderot, Denis, Encyclopédie, 325–26
DiPerna, Dustin, 115
disidentification, 355–56, 371, 380, 391
divine ignorance, 114
divine mysticism, 114–15
Dobrynin, Anatoly, 319
Dowd, Michael, 171
dream yoga. See lucid dreaming
dreamless state, 25, 27, 158, 159–60, 362–63, 366, 400
dreams
analogy, 23
consciousness state in, 27, 111–12
dukkha, 208, 216, 346, 392, 400. See also suffering
Durant, Will, 182
Dzogchen Buddhism, 23–24, 367

E
early Buddhism
development of, 400–401
emotions in, 402–3
goal of, 403
rationality of, 160–61, 450n5
egalitarianism, 172, 180

ego, 364, 372
I AMness and, 363
terms for, 18
Waking Up and, 24, 356
Witness and, 345, 381
egocentric structure-stage, 47–48, 49, 52, 61–63, 129. See also magic-power (red) stage
Einstein, Albert, 202, 270
emotional intelligence, 43, 60, 75, 82, 94, 291
questions of, 72, 292, 436
of Waking Up, 437
emotions, 225–27, 228–29, 402–3
empiricism, 285–86, 332, 335–36
Emptiness
direct realization of, 209–10, 211
Form and, 68, 209, 402
pure, 114, 158, 159–60, 161
radical, 158, 375
subtle feeling in, 392
Witness and, 374
Emptiness mysticism, 113, 158
Enlightened Mind, 13, 30, 31–33, 367
Enlightenment
as freedom from the pairs, 353–54
Nondual feelings of, 389, 430, 437
as present right now, 13
shifting view of, 402–4, 405
as unattainable, 365–66, 367
See also Awakening; Waking Up
epistemology, four approaches to, 285–88
equality
in global-Integral stage, 318
in orange and green, distinctions between, 175–76, 178–79, 184–85, 297
Eros, 167, 170, 171, 455n5
eternity
death and, 373
meaning of, 25, 361
misunderstandings about, 27–28
as timeless and ever present, 28–34, 36
ethnocentric structure-stage, 48–49
identity politics of, 317
mythic and mythic-literal stages in, 77–78, 128
Nazism and, 50
organizations at, 305
population at, 52, 53–54, 302

religion interpreted from, 66–67
slavery and, 51–52
subdividing, 444n1
Waking Up in, 63–64, 83
See also mythic-literal (amber) stage
Everyone Culture, An (Kegan and Lahey), 313–15
evolution
chronological “what,” 166–67, 168
end of, variant views on, 103–5
global dimensions of, 298–300, 315–16
Growing Up in, 118–19
interior and exterior dimensions of, 263
of matter, 268–70
in orange state transition, 161
tendency toward complexity, 281–82
theoretical “why,” variant views on, 167, 168–71
transhumanism and, 342
experience and explanation, differences between, 5–6, 12, 19–20, 34, 66, 70, 441n1

F
fairness, 174, 183, 191
fear, 245–47, 248, 249, 251, 278, 304, 352, 410
feminism, 127, 196, 199
Ferenczi, Sándor, 226
1st person
cognition and, 125
dimension of, 254
gender and, 273
global risks and, 313
as knowledge by acquaintance, 115–16
as material, view of, 329–30
pronouns, 243, 253–54, 255
shadow and, 227, 242–43, 244–46, 250
spiritual intelligence and, 76
and 3rd person, relationship of, 266–67, 278, 283–84
thought and, 274
upper quadrants and, 261–62
in Waking Up, 45, 63–64, 70, 88–89, 90
1st-tier stages, 186–87, 201, 296, 315–16
Fischer, Kurt, 107, 125, 141, 173, 200
Form
archetypal, 112, 159
causal, 157, 158

Emptiness and, 68, 209, 402
Platonic, 157, 159
Formless mysticism, 112, 116, 119, 132, 156, 158–59, 197, 215, 402
Foucault, Michel, 287, 296
4 quadrants, 257, 436
Big Three and, 260–61
communication and, 275–77, 278–80
DDC in, 318–19
dimensions of, 254
discovery of, 255–57
epistemology and, 285–88
holon sample in, 258
in humans, 259
importance of understanding, 288–89
as interwoven, 283–84
manifestation of, 264
in orange stage, 327
reduction to 3rd person, 340–41
Right-hand and Left-hand imbalances, 304–5, 308–12, 321–22
tracking, necessity of, 314–15
Upper Left and Upper Right distinctions, 261–64
variant classifications of, 258–60
See also Left-hand quadrants; Right-hand quadrants
4th-person perspective, 172–73, 195
Fowler, James, 72–73, 86–88, 93, 96, 219, 444n1
amber-stage equivalent, 125–26
crimson-stage equivalent, 99
green-stage equivalent, 173
magenta-stage equivalent, 107
orange-stage equivalent, 141
teal/turquoise-stage equivalent, 200
Freedom, 352, 381
Big Bliss and, 390–91, 394, 415, 416, 424, 428
feeling tones of, 346, 367–68, 411, 429–30, 437
in Integral Tantra, 410, 412, 413, 417–18
recognizing, 371–72
of Witness, 159, 370, 374, 375, 394, 400–401
See also radical Freedom
freedom, in orange and green, distinctions, 175–76, 178–79, 184–85, 297
Freedom-and-Fullness, 395–97, 411, 437
Freinacht, Hanzi, 202, 203
Freud, Sigmund, 38, 99, 225, 226, 242, 406, 453n3
Fullness, 352, 410
feeling tones of, 367–68, 394, 395, 426, 428–29, 430–31, 437

in Integral Tantra, 418–20, 422, 424
of One Taste, 347, 348, 352, 393
fundamentalism, 321
amber stage in, 49, 130–31, 138–39
in Christianity, 79, 81–82, 85
of far Left, 139, 181
myths in, 126, 447n1
terrorism and, 222
Waking Up and, 63, 67

G
Gaia, 80, 83, 111, 173, 195, 199
Galileo Galilei, 331, 332
Gardner, Howard, 291
Gautama Buddha, 6, 145, 152, 154, 160–61, 165
Gebser, Jean, 7, 55, 59, 75, 445n4
amber-stage equivalent, 125
crimson-stage equivalent, 99
green-stage equivalent, 173
magenta-stage equivalent, 107
orange-stage equivalent, 141
teal/turquoise-stage equivalent, 200
worldviews of, 96, 256
gender, 176–77. See also transgender identity
Gestalt Therapy, 247, 453n3
Gillian, Carol, 47–50, 129, 131
global suicide/self-destruction, 294–96, 297, 300, 307, 312, 319–20, 340–41
global warming, 80, 84, 299–300, 301, 309, 319–20, 458n4
global-Integral (turquoise/global 2nd tier), 301
interiority in, 318–19
population at, 302–3
Showing Up and, 313
Gnosticism, 161
God
direct experience of, 13
interpreted through stages, 448–49n2
mythic, as dead, 156, 163–64, 324, 350
mythic-literal view of, 128
golden shadow, 233, 237–39, 240–41
Graves, Clare, 97, 180, 445n4
amber-stage equivalent, 125, 126, 447n1
green-stage equivalent, 173
on integral transition, 201, 452n1

magenta-stage equivalent, 107, 109
orange-stage equivalent, 141
teal/turquoise-stage equivalent, 200
Great Chain of Being, 264–65, 267, 268, 325–26, 329, 332. See also under Christianity
Great Holarchy/Nest of Being, 326, 328, 334, 337, 338
Great Liberations, 6, 25–26, 144, 346, 370
Great Religions, 9, 39–40, 56, 90, 130–31, 142, 225, 228, 229
Great Web of Life, 79–80, 83–85, 111, 164–65, 173, 198, 199, 255, 450n6
Great Wisdom Traditions, 4, 19, 20, 23, 41–42, 119, 265, 399
gross state, 24, 27, 447n8
Ground of All Being, 7, 35, 207, 363, 365, 441n1
in Christian mysticism, 81
creativity of, 167
directly experiencing, 17, 115
Growing Up structures and, 92
Love and Bliss as, 426
manifestation of, 157
pantheism and, 450n6
quadrants and, 455n3
recognizing, 36
relative truth, absence of in, 40–41
as ultimate Truth, 20
Waking Up and, 22–23
Growing Up, 9, 90, 290, 301, 343, 434–35, 437
access to, 117–19
altitude of, 44
as automatic, 134
and biological growth, distinctions between, 46
discovery of, 53
evolution and, 40, 41–44, 105, 118–19
experience interpreted according to, 57–58, 59, 60
1st tier, 201
4 quadrants and, 264
4-stage model, 47–52, 445n4
hierarchies and, 193–94
historical epochs of, 110
models of, 44–45, 444n1
in modern culture, 68–69
names of structure-stages, variant, 55
reactions to, 11–12
religion interpreted by, 73
shadow material in, 229–30, 249, 453n2
social polarization and, 179
spiritual altitudes in, 196

spiritual intelligence in, 71, 75, 81, 87–88
structure-stages of, 46–47, 88–90, 94, 95
understanding one’s own stages, 137
and Waking Up, differences between, 58, 65–66, 76, 91–92, 165–66, 447–48n1
and Waking Up, interpreting, 60–65, 67–69, 82–85

H
Habermas, Jürgen, 104–5, 206–7, 260–61, 323, 326, 457n2
hard problem. See mind-body problem
Harding, Douglas, 376
Harris, Sam, 450n5
Harvard University, 179
headless exercise
Bliss and Love, uniting in, 431–32
in Integral sexual Tantra, 419, 420, 421–22
in pointing out One Taste, 376–77, 383–86
Heart Sutra, 209
Heidegger, Martin, 287
hierarchies, 340
growth vs. dominator, 192–95, 317–18
inverting, 198
Hinduism, 4, 7, 27, 405, 406. See also Advaita Vedanta; Brahmanical Hinduism
Hobbes, Thomas, 24
Holistic (teal) stage, 200, 201, 202
human development, 61
capacity for, 42–43
interior and exterior tracking, 301–5, 307–8, 309
stages of, 7–8
See also evolution

I
I AMness, 366
Bliss and, 392–93
celibacy and, 215
cognitive Blissfulness and, 416
as ever present, 372–73, 374
recognizing, 363–64
resting in, 380–81
simplicity of, 361
singularity of, 373–74
in waking state, 362
I-AMness mysticism, 112–13, 116, 119, 144–46, 158–59, 197, 402
identity politics, 180–81

I-I, 381, 423
inclusive-integral (turquoise) stage
equivalents, 200, 202
One Taste and, 203–6
population at, 201
religion in, 220
as 2nd tier, 201–2
India, 162–63, 215–16, 399, 404
indigenous cultures, 51, 446n5
individual and collective, 260–61, 280, 283, 284, 287, 288
individuality, dissolving, 378–79
Industrial Revolution, 330, 333
infinity, 34–35, 36
Integral, author’s use of term, 202
Integral Life Practice, 205, 229, 407
Integral Metatheory, 9, 10–11, 24, 45, 202, 444n1, 445–46n4
on dualism, beginning of, 375
on 4 quadrants, as interwoven, 283–84
on 4 quadrants, irreducibility of, 261
on 4 quadrants, reality of, 260–61
on matter, 265–67, 329–30
on orange and green, 179
science and, 203
on turiya, 449–50n4
in variety of disciplines, 218–19
Wholeness in, 41
Integral psychographs, 95, 96, 97
Integral sexual Tantra, 14–15, 209, 406
balance in, 409
method of, 411, 426–27, 432–33, 437
One Taste practice, 418–26
Witness practice, 411–18
Integral Spirituality, 229, 254–55
integral structure-stage, 52
emergence of, 55, 179, 192, 316, 458n8
population at, 52
preparatory ground for, 199, 452n1
religion interpreted from, 67
Waking Up in, 67–69
See also inclusive-integral (turquoise) stage
integrated stage (Gilligan), 52
intelligence. See multiple intelligences
Intelligent Design, 170–71
IQ, 290–91, 456n1

J
James, William, 21–22, 81, 330–31, 451n8
Jantsch, Erich, 167
Jefferson, Thomas, 143, 155
Jesus Christ, 171
in amber stage, 137–38
Big Three and, 254
demythologized view of, 152–55
ethnocentric view of, 83
in green stage, 198–99
message of, 6, 361
in narrative spirituality, 79
in orange stage, 143–46, 147, 149
in red stage, 122–23
worldcentric view of, 64
John of the Cross, 26, 114–15
Judaism, Ayin in, 161
Jung, Carl, 112, 157, 226

K
Kabbalah, 7, 24, 26
Kant, Immanuel, 2, 147
Kashmir Shaivism, 399
Kauffman, Stuart, 169
Kegan, Robert, 54, 97, 135, 189, 303, 318, 443n2, 457n3
amber-stage equivalent, 125
crimson-stage equivalent, 99
green-stage equivalent, 173
magenta-stage equivalent, 107
orange-stage equivalent, 141
teal/turquoise-stage equivalent, 200
See also DDO (deliberately developmental organization); Everyone Culture, An
Kennedy, Bobby, 319
Kennedy, John F., 295
Kepler, Johannes, 331, 332
King, Martin Luther, 316
Klu Klux Klan, 186
knowledge by acquaintance and by description, 5, 81, 86, 115, 165, 209–10, 211, 349–50
Kohlberg, Lawrence, 95, 99, 107, 125, 141, 173, 200, 445n4
Kosmic Address, 110, 202, 446n6
Kosmic consciousness, 19, 231, 284, 342, 348, 355, 428–29, 442n1. See also Unity
consciousness
kundalini, 404–5

L
Lahey, Lisa Laskow. See Everyone Culture, An
Lamarck, Jean-Baptiste, 292
language
4 quadrants and, 275–77, 278–80
limitations of, 210–13, 215
Lao Tzu, 2, 6, 125, 146, 197
law of complexity and consciousness, 271, 281
laws
ethnocentrism and, 189–90
Right- and Left-hand imbalances in, 307
worldcentric basis of, 190–91
Left (political), 139, 181, 182–85, 187, 191
Left-hand quadrants
awareness of, lessening, 330
erasure of, 323, 328, 336, 338
green-stage values of, 184–85, 186
orange-stage values of, 182–83
values in, 335
Leibniz, Gottfried, 270
Lenski, Gerhard, 256, 282, 289, 306
liberals, 103–5, 184–85
Locke, John, 324
Loevinger, Jane, 95, 96, 99, 107, 125, 141, 173, 200, 445n4
logical positivism, 29
Longchenpa, 68
Love, 349, 367–68, 437
Evolutionary, 105, 170
Fullness as, 348
unconditional, 426
See also Big Love
love, romantic, 238–39, 429
Lovejoy, Arthur, 170, 325
Loving Bliss. See Blissful Love
Loving Oneness, 419–21, 422, 423–24, 425, 431
Loving Unity, 420, 422–26, 431
lucid dreaming, 120, 128, 132–33, 362
Lyotard, Jean-François, 296

M
MAD (mutual assured destruction), 294–96, 297, 301, 311–12, 319
magic-mythic structure-stages, 4, 8, 50, 55, 77.
See also magic-power (red) stage

magic-power (red) stage, 52, 106–9, 121–22, 457n2
Mahamudra, 23–24
Mahayana Buddhism, 7, 30, 365–66, 405
Maimonides, 68
Mao Tse-tung, 130
Marx, Karl, 308
Marxism, 127, 139
Maslow, Abraham, 97, 256, 445n4
on cognitive blissfulness, 391, 413
on plateau experiences, 357
stage equivalents, 99, 102, 107, 125, 141, 173, 200
matter, 301
evolution of, 268–70, 271
as exterior of any holon, 265–68, 269
in Great Chain of Being, 264–65, 267
in Lower Right, 283
meaning of, changing, 329–30
measurement, 331–35
meditation, 19, 158, 160, 206, 229, 356–58, 400
meta-physical, 265, 266
metaphysical mysticism, 114
Middle Ages, 64, 110, 350–51
mind
brain and, 265–66
developmental structuralism and, 286–87
Freud’s view of, 226–27
thoughts and, 274–77
as Upper Left quadrant, 261
See also consciousness
mind-body problem, 261–64
mindfulness, 13, 353
Mirror Mind, 354, 355, 359, 366, 371–72, 375, 380, 382
modernity
advantages and disadvantages of, 301
denial of interior in, 323–24
dignity of, 327, 330
disaster of, 328, 333, 337, 340, 343
rise of, 181–82, 299
Weber’s definition, 326
modern-rational (orange) stage, 131, 132, 140, 435
demythologizing in, 142–46
differentiation in, 326, 327
emergence of, 182, 315, 458n8
equivalents, 141

evolution and, 166–71
global suicide and, 294
and green stage, differences in, 174–75, 296–97, 300
history, 141–42
interior levels of, 304
postmythic nature of, 154
Right and Left quadrant imbalance in, 305–15
Waking Up forgotten in, 349–50
moral intelligence, 43, 60, 75, 82, 94, 291, 456–57n1
development of, 42
questions of, 72, 292, 436
morality, 50, 51, 306, 309, 321
Moses, 2, 5, 77, 125, 148, 150, 197
multiculturalism, 172–73, 180, 184, 187, 193, 194–96, 296
multiple intelligences, 43–44, 437, 442n1, 456n1
awareness of, 290–91
capacities in, 61
as conveyor belts, 319
evolution of, 72, 88, 291–92
in Growing Up stages, 60, 94–95
life questions addressed by, 292–93
number of, debate on, 291
roles of, 92–93
Murphy, Michael, 171
mystical experience
brain patterns in, 265–66
as direct experience, 153–54
major types, 111–15, 116, 134, 205
sexual union as analogy for, 418, 432
mythic-literal (amber) stage, 124, 435
absolutism in, 126–28
equivalents, 125
as in-between realm, 129–30
myths’ origins in, 147, 150
population at, 135
regressing to, 181
spiritual intelligence in, 350–51
terrorism and, 222
undifferentiated quadrants in, 326–27
Waking Up in, 81–82, 83
mythic-rational (umber) stage, 298, 457n2
mythic-religious stage, 73
myths
literal meaning, 126

original meaning, 150, 151
three levels of reading, 148–49, 151–52, 448n2
variant views of, 146–48

N
Nagarjuna, 212, 213, 346, 353, 365, 441n1
discoveries of, overview, 207–10
Nonduality of, 401–2, 418
proto-Integral cognition of, 206
tantra and, 405–6
Nalanda University, 399
narcissism and narcissistic disorders, 101, 234–35
natural sciences, 330, 340
Nature mysticism, 83–84, 111, 113, 116, 119, 133, 207. See also shamanism
Nazism, 50, 64, 104
near-death experiences (NDE), 4
neo-Darwinism, 168
Neoplatonism, 7, 24
neti, neti (“not this, not that”), 113, 346, 348, 351, 352, 370–72, 391, 424
neuroscience, 456n1
neuroses, 101–2, 225–26, 240, 453n3
New Age, 196, 214
New Atheists, 99, 109, 137, 155, 450n5
New Paradigm in Science, 85, 127, 165, 213–15, 339, 340, 343
Newton, Issac, 202, 331, 332
Nicene Creed, 137, 350–51
Nietzsche, Friedrich, 104, 156
nirodh (pure cessation), 159, 160–61, 208, 401, 403. See also nirvana
nirvana, 159–60, 162, 207, 370, 375, 400–401, 430. See also under samsara
Nirvana Sutra, 255
Nondual mysticism (nondual Unity mysticism), 113, 116, 119, 197
Nonduality, 47, 441n1
and adual fusion state, difference between, 47, 100–102
direct experience of, 210
knowing dimension of, 396
Nagarjuna’s, 401–2, 418
pure, 19, 47, 210, 348, 378–79, 401
radical Fullness of, 430
noosphere, 269
Now-moment, 31, 348, 360, 379–80, 434
nuclear threat, 294–95, 297, 300, 311–12, 320

O
One Taste, 27, 441n1
Blissful Love and, 429
bodhisattva vow and, 403
description of experience, 377–78
feeling tones of, 367–68, 393, 394–97, 410–11, 437
final step of, 375–76, 378–79
Fullness of, 348
in Integral sexual Tantra, 418–25
Loving Fullness of, 430
mind-body problem and, 263, 264
mindfulness in, 353
pointing-out instructions, 386–87 (see also headless exercise)
recognizing, 348
spiritual schools related to, 206–7
steps in practicing, 354–56
synonyms of, 20
turquoise stage and, 203–6
as ultimate state, 357–58, 364, 459–60n4
and Witness, difference between, 351–52
See also turiyatita
Oneness, 35, 89, 376, 405, 428
direct experience of, 5–6, 7, 12–13, 19, 20, 39, 221
feeling tones of, 393, 394, 396–97
as interpreted by stages of Growing Up, 62, 64, 65–66, 83
quantum mechanics and, 214
search for, 4
self-boundary and, 231
of turiya state, 162
of turiyatita, 25–26, 217, 352, 386
See also Loving Oneness
1-2-3 of Spirit, 255, 288
ongoing knowingness, 413–14
Opening Up, 9, 43, 290, 343, 436, 437
importance of, 291
lines of development in, 44
multiple intelligences and, 293
as relative truth, 40–41
orgasm, 406, 408
conventional and tantric, relationship between, 417–18, 426
Witness and, 415
orgasm memory, 416–17
Original Face, 33, 34, 158, 255, 342, 358, 360–61, 372, 381, 387, 417

original sin, 5, 13, 79, 216, 392, 400

P
pain, 17, 114–15, 425
disidentification with, 217, 371, 391–92
ego and, 24
liberation from, 417
nirvana and, 400, 401
Painting of All That Is, 351–52, 353, 375, 459n1
One Taste recognition of, 382–83, 385
Witnessing Awareness of, 354, 355, 369–70, 380–81
panentheism, 199, 441–42n1, 450–51n6
pan-interiorism, 270–71
panpsychism, 270, 330
pantheism, 164, 207, 441n1, 450n6, 459n1
paradox of instruction, 32–34, 36, 67, 365
Parmenides, 162
Pascal, Blaise, 326
Patanjali, Yoga Sutras, 26
Paths of Liberation, 20, 22, 30–32, 33, 119
Paul (Saint), 3–4, 51, 81, 154
Peirce, Charles, 169–70, 451n8
Perennial Philosophy, 6
Perls, Fritz, 453n3
Peterson, Jordan, 22–23, 91, 151, 180
phenomenological methods, 286–87
physiosphere, 268–70
Piaget, Jean, 60, 97, 99, 102, 445n4
Plato, 141, 157, 159
Plotinus, 6, 68, 72, 203, 206, 441n1
Pogo (comic strip), 237
pointing-out instructions, 13, 14, 119, 134, 366–67, 452n4. See also under One Taste; Witnessing
Awareness
postmodern-pluralistic (green) stage
broken green, 139, 176, 178, 180–81, 185, 186, 187–88, 189–90, 191, 192
discrimination, view of in, 181–82
ecological activism in, 173
emergence of, 184, 294, 295, 315, 458n8
equal outcome in, 174–76, 177–79, 193–94
equivalents, 173
exterior focus of, 316–18
hierarchies confused in, 192–95
influence of, 186–87

population at, 172
Trump and, 235
universal rights and, 183–84
virtues of, 187–88, 190–91
Waking Up in, 83–85
poststructuralism, 296
pragmatism, 451n8
Prajnaparamita Sutras, 30, 365
prayer, 19, 123, 124, 433
prehension, 263, 268, 269–70, 271–72, 276, 284, 455–56n5
present, passing, 359–60, 364, 369–70, 379. See also Standing Present
Prigogine, Ilya, 167, 169
Primordial Avoidance, 352–53, 383–84, 393
pronouns, three universal, 253–54, 255
psychoanalysis, 225–27, 249, 286
psychoses, 101, 225–26, 240
Purusha and Prakriti, 162
Pythagoras, 159

Q
quantum entanglement, 85, 339
quantum mechanics, 79–80, 85, 164–65, 214, 339–40, 450n6
quantum physics, 202, 339

OceanofPDF.com

R
racism, 127, 130, 181, 188–90, 235, 306–7, 316, 318
radical Freedom, 114, 372
feeling tone of, 345, 346, 428
historical emergence of, 161, 162
recognizing, 347, 348
of Witness, 347–48, 367–68, 390–92, 393, 410
Ram Dass, 62
Ramana Maharshi, 363, 366, 381
Rank, Otto, 226
rational sciences, 37–38, 39–40, 56, 163, 164–65, 450n6
Real Self, 4, 40, 62–63, 344, 347, 381
Realizers, 6, 145–46, 153, 154
recognition, “nonpractice” of, 355–56, 364–65, 367
reductionism, 334, 336, 337–38, 339, 340
reincarnation, 454n2
relative states, 357, 358, 364
relative truth, 20, 35, 40, 68, 91–92, 212, 455n3
religion
amber ethnocentric origins of, 130–31
belief systems of, 1–2
core of, spiritual, 3, 6, 9
declining interest in, 77–78
in green stage, 174, 195–99
Growing Up and, 218–22
magical realism in, 108
magical-mythic elements in, 162
moral and rational view of, 155
mythic-Deity type, 132
mythic-literal aspects in, 126–28, 135, 447n1
in orange stage, 143–46
personal interpretation of, 163–64
and science, relationship of, 56–57, 127, 265, 267–68, 350–51
as transformative pacer, 137
Waking Up in, 12–13
See also Great Religions
Religion of Tomorrow, 151, 202, 204–5, 221, 222–23, 228, 447–48n1
repression, 224–28, 251. See also shadow material
Republican Party, 185, 235
Right-hand quadrants, 185–86
amber-stage values, 182, 183–84, 190
measurement and, 331–36

origin of term, 182
Western Enlightenment and, 332
robotics, 341–42

S
samadhi, 401, 403
Samkhya tradition, 162, 163
samsara, 207, 370, 375
early Buddhist view of, 208, 400
and nirvana, unity of, 68, 163, 209, 401–3, 405, 430
suffering of, 13, 160
satchitananda (Being/Consciousness/Bliss), 216–17, 347, 392, 393
satori, 20, 405, 452n4
brain in, 265, 268, 271, 280
direct experiences of, 21, 23, 89, 211, 212–13
quantum theories and, 339–40
recognizing, 33, 36
Schelling, Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph, 68
Schrödinger, Erwin, 31, 359, 373
science, 20, 336–37, 435
exterior focus of, 323, 328, 330, 333
foundation of, 285
in green stage, 84–85
Growing Up and, 218–19
invention of, 299
measurement in, 331–35
orange stage and, 141, 142, 155–56
and religion, relationship of, 56–57, 127, 265, 267–68, 350–51
See also natural sciences; rational sciences
scientific materialism, 57, 67, 266, 435
acceptance of, official, 323, 328, 334, 350
limitations of, 268, 281
New Paradigm and, 340
reductionism of, 336
seduction of, 271, 272
scientism, 127, 139
2nd person, 125, 249
communication and, 275
dimension of, 254
global risks and, 313
pronouns, 243, 245, 253–54, 255, 454n1
shift from, 140
Seer, 114, 158, 345, 352, 370–71, 373, 374, 375–76

self, 18–19
in crimson stage, 100–102
in magenta stage, 107–8
and matter, confusion between, 47
objects mistaken as, 382
in orange stage, 141
other and, 374
shadow creation and, 244
subtle sense of, 362
See also Real Self
self-boundary, 230–31, 233
self-identity, 92, 239–40, 242
self-organization (evolutionary), 167, 168–69, 170, 171, 281
Selman, Robert, 107, 125, 141, 173, 445n4
sex, 209, 349, 398, 406–7, 410, 411. See also Integral sexual Tantra
sexism, 127, 181, 188–90, 235, 307, 316, 318
shadow material, 435–36
creating, 227–28, 230–31, 240, 251
discovery of (historic), 224–27
levels of, 230, 241–42
projecting, 232–37
re-owning, 239–41, 245, 250
See also golden shadow; 3-2-1 process
shamanism, 120, 121, 122
Shankara, 6, 68, 145–46, 361, 405, 406
Shibayama, 374
Showing Up, 9, 252, 290, 436, 437
in all 4 quadrants, 264, 273–74, 284–85, 288
choosing, 343
in DDOs, 315
as developmental structuralism, 286–87
dimensions in, 255
failure in, 303–5, 313, 321–22, 324, 328, 334
importance of, 341
orange stage and, 327
as relative truth, 40–41
Siddhartha. See Gautama Buddha
slavery, 51–52, 54, 55–56, 63, 64, 66, 142, 299, 305–6, 321
Smith, Adam, 310
Smith, Houston, Forgotten Truth, 22
snake-charmer sects, 123
social Darwinism, 104
social justice, 173, 184, 190, 193–95, 198, 199, 297, 316–17
socially engaged Buddhism, 195, 196, 199

spacetime continuum, 35–36
Spaciousness, 33–34, 346, 372, 375, 379–80, 381, 385, 391
Spanish Inquisition, 65, 67
Spinoza, Baruch, 270
Spiral Dynamics (SD), 97, 107, 108, 126, 447n1
Spirit
Big Three and, 255
brain and, 280
feeling tones of, 407, 432
Nature and, 266
quadrants and, 455n3
sex as road to, 410, 411, 418
subtle-state, 132
ultimate, 346
uses of term, 15, 441n1
Spirit-in-action, 105, 166, 167, 170, 171
spiritual, use of term, 77
“spiritual but not religious,” 1–2, 3, 6, 18, 19, 74, 77, 435
spiritual intelligence, 43, 44, 98, 268, 292, 293
in amber stage, 77–78, 138–39
atheism and, 155
defining, 71, 443n1
evolution and, 166–67, 171
expanding, 74
Fowler’s structure-stages of, 86–88, 93
functions of, 71–72, 74–75
in green stage, 173, 196–97, 199
in narrative spirituality, 79–81
in orange stage, 142–43
science and, 85
and spiritual experience, distinction between, 70–71, 75–76, 86, 349, 350–51, 435
structure-stages of, 109–10
in turquoise stage, 205
Waking Up and, 64–65, 81–85, 164–66, 215, 450n6
spiritual teachers, 219, 228, 242
spirituality, 1, 73
evolution and, 166
in green stage, 196–99
narrative, 79–81
at orange stage, 164
as religion without weirdness, 7
and science, integrating, 74
sex and, 209, 398, 410, 411
in turquoise stage, 205–7

ultimate goal of, 220
Spong, John Shelby, 198. See also Unbelievable (Spong)
Stalin, Joseph, 130
Standing Present, 359–60, 363–64, 369–70, 379–82, 385, 395, 427
state-stages, use of term, 89, 447n8
Strachey, James, 226
string theory, 159, 202
structure-stages, use of term, 89, 447n8
subpersonality, 242, 245
subtle body, 120, 454n2
subtle energy, 454n2, 455–56n5
subtle state, 24, 27, 88, 111–12, 114, 121, 128, 131–35
Suchness, 25, 36, 113, 345, 347, 427
experiencing, 378, 383, 385–86, 394, 397
fullness of, 348
infinite Love of, 424–25
Nondual, 263, 355
Showing Up and, 343
See also One Taste
suffering, 216, 392
as brokenness, 352
cause of, 24
in conventional world, 13
early Buddhist view of, 208, 400–401
freedom from, 346, 348
inherent, 162
liberation from, 417
Sufism, 4, 7, 24, 26, 115
superholism, 11
super-integral stages (3rd tier), 202, 207
Supreme Identity, 24–25, 115, 144, 149, 152, 240, 251, 387–88
Suzuki Roshi, 24
System of Nature, 324–26, 331, 333, 334, 336, 338, 340, 341
systems theory, 164–65, 214, 450n6
atomism and, 283, 337
as collective empiricism, 286
interiority lacking in, 338–39
on Nature, 326
on reality, 260

T
Tantra, 204, 349
author’s use of term, 405–6

Bliss and Love in, 432
danger in, 409
emotions in, 402–3
history of, 399–400, 404–5
Nonduality of, 215–17, 405
primary rule of, 403
types of practices, 408–9
See also Integral sexual Tantra
Taoism, 7, 24, 406, 410
Taylor, Charles, Sources of the Self, 324
technology, 320
digital/computer, 296
Right- and Left-hand imbalances in, 308–9, 458n4
Teilhard de Chardin, Pierre, 271
Teresa, Saint, 26
3rd person
dimensions of, 254
and 1st person, relationship of, 266–67, 278, 283–84
gender and, 273
material dimensions of, 333–34
in mind-brain problem, 262
in orange stage, 140
pronouns, 243, 253–54, 255
singular and plural distinctions, 254, 281
systems theory and, 338
thoughts
in 4 quadrants, 274, 283–84, 289
intersubjectivity in, 279–80
in Witnessing practice, 381–82
3-2-1 process, 229, 242, 453n1
development of, 453n3
dimensions of, 254
shadow material, creation of, and, 242–46
steps of, 246–50
Tibetan Buddhism, 7, 23–24, 27, 157, 204, 399, 413–14. See also Dzogchen Buddhism
Tillich, Paul, 72
timeless Now
awareness of, 360–61
eternity as, 25, 28, 29
as ever present, 32
as Kingdom of Heaven, 146, 149
Loving Bliss of, 427
recognizing, 30–31
resting in, 379–81

Waking Up and, 34
Torbert, William R., 107, 125, 141, 173, 200
transcend and include, 67, 192, 198, 206, 250–51, 281, 399, 401–2, 430, 455–56n5
transgender identity, 272–73
transhumanism, 342–43
trans-material, 265, 454–55n2
True Self, 32–33, 39, 158, 255, 363, 381
Absolute Subjectivity of, 371–72
Christ and, 146, 149
as 4th state, 374–75, 459–60n4
mysticism, 215
searching for, 346, 347
Trump, Donald, 234–36, 317
Trungpa, Chögyam, 377–78
turiya, 25, 118
causal state and, 158, 160
direct realization of, 206
dualism in, 163, 449n4
feeling tones in, 431
as 4th state, 374–75
in Integral Tantra, 410
mystical experience in, 112–13, 447n8
nirvana and, 208
orange-state interpretation, 145, 161
practicing with negative states, 371–72
recognizing, 355, 363
transition from, 396
See also Witness
turiyatita, 118, 217
feeling tones in, 431
mystical experience in, 113, 115
orange stage and, 145
synonyms of, 25–26
Tantra and, 403
transition to, 207, 347, 396
in turquoise stage, 203–6
as ultimate state, 364, 459n4
Unity Awareness of, 163
See also One Taste

U
ultimate concern, 74, 155, 293, 435
of Christians, 98–99

defining, 72–73
in Fowler’s stages, 87
in green stage, 83–85, 173
in narrative spirituality, 79–80
spiritual intelligence and, 93
in stages of development, 75, 78
ultimate states, 357–58, 364, 375, 390, 431, 437, 459n4
ultimate Truth, 40, 441n1
direct realization of, 210–13, 221
modern forgetting of, 22
realizing and thinking about, distinctions in, 86
and relative truth, relationship between, 91–92
Waking Up and, 35
Unbelievable (Spong), 5–6, 73, 164
Underhill, Evelyn, 26, 113–15, 207
Unity consciousness, 115, 154, 379, 434, 436
awareness of, 211, 387–88, 438
feeling of, 348
New Paradigm and, 213–14
population experiencing, 153
unconditionality of, 426
See also Kosmic consciousness
unity of opposites, 441n1
universal care stage, 50, 64, 131
universal rights, 52, 141–42, 183, 299, 458n8

V
Vajrayana Buddhism, 7, 27, 163, 204, 399. See also Tibetan Buddhism
Varela, Francisco, 167
vasanas (collective memory forms), 157, 159
Vatican II, 65, 222
Veblen, Thorstein, 175
Vedanta, 7, 27, 157, 163, 204
Virgin Mary, 4, 30, 77, 79, 83, 85, 137
Voltaire, 65

W
Wade, Nicholas, 97, 103, 104, 107, 125, 141, 173, 200
waking state, 24, 27, 112, 119, 120, 133, 362
Waking Up, 9, 26–27, 35, 69, 264, 290, 434, 436–37
access to, 117–19
in amber stage, 128–29, 132, 133, 138
awareness of, 89–90

Big Bliss and Big Love in, 394
Buddha’s approach to, 160
in causal state, 159–60
as choice, 134–35, 136–37
conceptual knowledge and, 85–86
in crimson stage, 100–101
direct experience in, 12, 71, 81, 212–13
in early Christianity, 3–4
eternity and, 29–30, 34
evidence of, 21–23
feeling tones of, 345
forgetting, history of, 349–51
goal of, 18–19
and Growing Up, differences between, 58, 65–66, 76, 91–92, 447–48n1
Growing Up and, 57, 60, 92, 134, 217–18, 220–22
history of, 17–18, 119
importance of, 343–44
language and, 212
limitations of, 38–41
metatheory on, 111, 116–18
mind-body problem and, 263, 264
misconceptions about, 37–38
modern science and, 56–57
myths and, 149
New Paradigm and, 213–15
nondual experience of, 216
in orange stage, 145, 146, 152–55
in pantheism and panentheism, 450–51n6
paradox of instruction and, 32–34
population having experienced, 90, 350–51
profundity of, 41
scientific descriptions mistaken for, 165–66
self-boundary in, 231
shadow material and, 230
and spiritual intelligence, difference between, 76
state-stages of, 24–26, 98
terms for, 20
in turquoise stage, 205–6
two common aspects of, 13
as ultimate Truth, 20–21
Walsh, Roger, World of Shamanism, 121
Watt, James, 333
Watts, Alan, 29, 271, 354
wealth inequality, 320, 459n9

Weber, Max, 326
Western Enlightenment, 51–52, 55
advances in, 299
core ideas of, 324, 325, 332, 335–36
crime of, 272, 328, 329, 330, 334, 336, 340
orange stage and, 141, 163–64
reductionism and, 337–38, 340
religion and, 56–57, 156, 267
as worldcentric, 65
Western mysticism, 113
Whitehead, Alfred, 157, 167, 168, 268, 270, 331, 332, 455n5
Wholeness, 15, 51, 393, 455–56n5
belief systems and, 4
benefits of, 2, 15–16
of Blissful Love, 427, 429
Cleaning Up and, 225, 228, 251–52
egocentric, 48
ethnocentric, 49
experiencing, 5, 17, 388
as genuine spirituality, 1–2
Growing Up and, 44, 46–47, 52–53, 54, 220
interior and exterior dimensions of, 263–64
knowing where to look for, 8–9, 10, 11
names for, 6
types of, 9–11, 14, 41, 91–92, 94
uses of term, 15, 441n1
Waking Up and, 21, 65
in world religions, 6, 7
“wicked problem,” 315
Wilber, Ken, 202, 315
Eye to Eye, 331
Integral Psychology, 45, 444n1, 445n4
Religion of Tomorrow, The, 241, 242, 444n1
Sex, Ecology, Spirituality, 255–56
Wilber-Combs Lattice, 116–19, 205, 206, 447nn8–9
Wilson, David Sloan, 168
Wisdom Traditions. See Great Wisdom Traditions
Witness, 25, 27, 158, 374
as Absolute Subjectivity, 374–75
Blissful Happiness in, 428
description of experience, 345–46, 369–70
early Buddhism and, 400–401
as ever present, 347, 363–64
feeling tones of, 367–68, 390–93, 394–97, 410–11, 437

in Integral sexual Tantra, 411–18
knowing aspect of, 459–60n4
mindfulness in, 353
and One Taste, difference between, 351–52
recognizing, 348
transition from, 375–76
two aspects of, 413–15
as ultimate state, 357–58
Witnessing Awareness, 351–52, 353, 389, 397, 410, 417
pointing-out instructions, 358–60, 379–81
steps of, 354–56
testing, 381–82
transition from, 389–90
Wittgenstein, Ludwig, 29, 361
women, equality of, 176–77, 178–79, 188–89
World Economic Forum, 311, 312–13
worldcentric structure-stages, 49, 50–52, 55–56
amber stage and, 129–30, 131
democracy and, 321
emergence of, 55, 139, 298–300
leap to, 324
in modern culture, 68–69
narrative spirituality in, 79–80
population at, 52, 54, 443n2
religion interpreted from, 67
Waking Up in, 64–65
See also modern-rational (orange) stage; postmodern-pluralistic (green) stage

Y
Yogachara Buddhism, 26, 157

Z
Zen Buddhism
body as universe in, 115
“don’t know mind” in, 114
on Enlightened Mind, 30
on gateless gate, 365, 366
on “just ringing,” 355, 383
koans in, 211–12, 405
on Original Face, 33
ox-herding pictures, 26
paradox in, 365
on turiyatita, transition to, 396

See also satori

A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X
Y Z
OceanofPDF.com

Sign up to receive news and special offers from Shambhala Publications.

Or visit us online to sign up at shambhala.com/email-signup.
OceanofPDF.com

